 NOTE: MOD IS A WORK IN PROGRESS AND HAS NOT BEEN RELEASED.

CAUTION: SPOILERS BELOW!!


Contents

1. Introduction
2. Erevain Original Role
3. Erevain Expanded Role - Intro and Early Exit
4. Erevain Expanded Role - Expansion Contents
5. Original Erevain Points of Inspiration
6. Erevain Expansion Outline
7. Erevain Starting Mechanical Information
8. Erevain General Notes
9. Good Bioware NPC Banters
10. Neutral Bioware NPC Banters
11. Evil Bioware NPC Banters
12. NEJ NPC Banters
13. Crossmod NPC Banters
14. CHARNAME Banters
15. CHARNAME Player Initiated Banters
16. Event Banters
17. Interjections
18. CRE File Information
19. Infiltrator Kit Description
20. Erevain's Elven Plate +2 Description
21. Erevain's Broadsword +3 Description
22. Blacksheaf Family Amulet Description
23. Erevain's Body
24. Encounter 1: Guthic of Shargaas
25. Encounter 2: Yalatheniel of Evereska
26. Encounter 3: Guthic of Shargaas #2
27. Encounter 4: Yalatheniel of Evereska #2

----------------
1. Introduction
----------------

Erevain Blacksheaf is an NPC met in the original Icewind Dale as well as the Never Ending Journey Baldur's Gate 2 mod. This thread is to be used as a repository of notes and outlines for expanding the role of Erevain into a joinable NPC companion.

Erevain can be found in the Snowdrift Inn in

----------------
2. Erevain Original Role
----------------

Erevain's original stats can be found here. Erevain is the only elf in Easthaven and he speaks to you as a traveler who is delaying the Elven retreat to explore more of the world.

Erevain's fate is tragic as he went to Dragon's Eye ahead of the party on his own, trying to save a group of captured villagers but died alone in the attempt. He leaves behind a journal revealing that he was Xan's (NPC companion from BG1) cousin.

----------------
3. Erevain Expanded Role - Intro and Early Exit
----------------

Erevain will have an extra dialogue option upon meeting him that will allow you to recruit him into your party. Either he will be joinable immediately or you will need to wait until you have the quest to find the missing caravans before he will become joinable. If you're rude to him, he will not join you.

When Hrothgar tells you to talk to Pomhab to gather supplies, he will tell you that you can talk to Accalia in addition to speaking to Erevain to join the party. If you were rude to Erevain earlier, he'll give you a second chance to be nice to him and will be willing to join your party for Hrothgar's sake.

If for whatever reason CHARNAME does not recruit and keep Erevain long enough, he will meet his original fate: death inside Dragon's Eye. IF CHARNAME kicks out Erevain before visiting the Dragon's Eye, CHARNAME will have an opportunity to bring back Erevain into the party. If CHARNAME does not immediately bring him back into the party, Erevain will dejectedly head out on his own and will not be re-recruitable. However, after traveling to the Dragon's Eye dungeon, you will be able to kick Erevain out and be able to re-recruit him back in Kuldahar. The justification for this is that Erevain will have participated enough to have redeemed himself (saving captured villagers). More on that later.

Upon traveling inside Dragon's Eye dungeon a couple of checks are made. If Erevain is not in your party and was not removed from the party after Death (dead body on ground), then Erevain's corpse will appear in the Dragon's eye Dungeon with his journal noting his attempts to go it alone. Erevain's corpse will contain whatever items he had with him before his "death". I.e. if the party never talked to him, he'll have his original items on his corpse, if the party recruited him and stole all his items, he'll have a naked corpse except for a journal, and if the party gave him extra items before kicking him out again, his corpse will contain the extra items. Around his corpse should be some remains of Bombadier Beetles. He would have gone down fighting and died, presumably from their poison.

----------------
4. Erevain Expanded Role - Expansion Contents
----------------

CHARNAME Dialogues - 5 in BG2. 3 in ToB planned.

NPC Banters - Erevain with have at least 2 banters with every NeJ and Bioware NPC. At least 2 crossmod banters if a Xan NPC BG2 mod is installed. More than 2 banters for some NPCs are possible if inspiration comes. Possible crossmod banters with the Longer Road Irenicus NPC. At some point 1 additional banter at ToB is planned.

Event Banters - Erevain will speak up at all the appropriate events other NPCs are expected to (Travel to Kuldahar, Travel to Dragon's Eye, Tree of Life, Post Melissan, etc.)

Interjections - Interjections at various points as inspiration comes. No preplanned number.

Romance - No planned romance. Erevain might potentially have some interjections hinting at jealousy. Update: 7/9/2015 Romance is possible. Focus is on finishing other dialogues first.

Flirts - The other NeJ NPCs do not have flirts so this is not planned. I might consider a simple dialogue to avoid that annoying message "X has nothing to say to you"

Player Initiated Dialogue - Update: 7/9/2015 - This is a highly desirable feature by several players, so this mod should include it. 5 PIDs for BG2 and 3 PIDs for ToB are planned

Encounters - 3 encounters are planned. These are 2 groups of NPCs hunting Erevain for some misdeed in his past that haunts him

Quests - No quests are currently planned. Traveling to Evereska to visit Erevain's homeland could be fun, but would require a lot detailed artwork and area creation.

Kit - Erevain will come with a custom kit not seen in another mod to date

Item Upgrades - Upgrades to Erevain's Sword and Armor will be available via Conlan's Smithy, Cromwell's, or Cespenar. It is intended that components missed in IWD may become available during BG2 and components missed during BG2 may become available during ToB.

----------------
5. Original Erevain Points of Inspiration
----------------

Originally Erevain was an explorer who avoided the Elven retreat twenty years ago to explore the world. He estimates that it will take all the elves a few hundred years to retreat to Evermeet. He plans on eventually joining his brethren there. Erevain does not like the cold and misses the weather of Evereska. He worships Corellon, referring to him in his original dialogue and later journal.

He has some regret in not joining Hrothgar's party because he believes they need protection. He thinks trying to reclaim the old elven lands would lead to darkness and war. He fondly recalls his cousin Xan, but does not want to feel that he's becoming like him (dismal and despairing).

He eventually is found dead within the Dragon's Eye Dungeon, most likely during a rescue attempt of the captured villagers: a reluctant and failed tragic hero.

These inspire us to ask a few questions:

1. Was a desire for travel his only reason he avoided the Retreat? 20 years is a long time, even for elves. Is he avoiding something or someone from his past? Has he purposefully traveled to the elfless inhospitable North to get far away from something? (It is a fair distance from Evereska to the Spine of the World).
2. How did he get into Dragon's Eye mostly undetected?
3. How has a single traveler managed to survive for 20 years so well?

----------------
6. Expansion Outline
----------------

Erevain is the tale of a potentially tragic hero of contradictions. He is cowardly, not offering to help sometimes when he know that he should yet brave (some would say foolhardy), risking life and limb for others in danger. He can be hopeless like his cousin Xan, yet also hopeful. He can be polite yet allow some of that Elven arrogance to set in.

Erevain's journey will be one of a person who while having some good qualities, also harbors some bad ones too (cowardice, rudeness, feeling of racial superiority). Throughout dialogues and his journey Erevain will become more homely, more rounded, more pleasant, and more hopeful. Our somewhat reluctant companion will become a full fledged and devoted friend by its end.

Erevain's backstory will be revealed that he belonged to multiple organizations in Evereska. The Swords, the Greycloaks, and the Vale Guardians of Evereska. In each case he had trouble keeping with each one as none of these organizations made a full use of his talents in Erevain's opinion. Eventually, Erevain found himself in a situation where he was required to defend Evereska from invaders (Orcs? Hobgoblins?). Erevain decided to go invisible to restrike again later. Unfortunately Erevain lost his nerve and instead ran away from battle. As a result several other elves were killed that he may have been able to aid. Erevain was heavily chastised by his superiors and rather than face the shame at home, he abandoned the Swords of Evereska and decided to journey far away, eventually arriving in the town of Easthaven after 20 years.

Erevain may give off some hints of regret, but it won't become clear until the later two encounters happen. In the first encounter a group of Hobgoblin, Goblin, Orc, Half-Orc, Ogrillon, Half-Ogre, and/or Bugbear Mercenaries as well as some undead servants. (decide details later) that will intercept the party in an Area location. The group will be led by Guthic of Shargaas, a Half-Orc Cleric/Assassin of the Orc God of darkness, night, stealth, thieves, and the undead. They will recognize Erevain in the party (or will know by the descriptions of his companions that he should be nearby them). The party members will question why Erevain has a bounty placed on him, but Erevain will refuse to let out much information to the consternation of the other party members. Guthic and his crew of assassins will allow CHARNAME to pay Erevain's bounty in gold. If the party does not have sufficient gold, Guthic will allow CHARNAME to pay him in equivalent value of magic items. If the player cannot or refuses to by an equivalent bounty, then combat begins.

In the second encounter, a band of Elven Warriors led by a captain of the Swords of Evereska will intercept the party. Yalatheniel (their leader), will reveal Erevain's abandonment of duties. Erevain will apologize and have the option of trying to reason with Yalatheniel, but Yalatheniel will not let Erevain be captured or held to trial as that would risk him being pardoned: Erevain must pay for the death of his Elven comrades. This is a tactical battle with Yalatheniel and his minions casting multiple area spells to disable and destroy the party. Yalatheniel is intended to be a high level Fighter/Mage/Cleric with Fighter, Mage, and Cleric companions.

After the battle, it will become more clear to Erevain's companions the remorse over his previous actions. Even though by this time Erevain will have helped saved villagers from Dragon's Eye (and helped others potentially), it's not enough for him to feel redeemed in his heart. However, near the climax of BG2 where the elven city of Suldanessellar is being attacked, his spirit truly shines through. Suddenly all of Erevain's good qualities outshine the bad ones and he's able to redeem himself by helping this Elven city from destruction. Afterwards, a Greycloak will be present at Suldanessellar who will confirm Erevain's heroics. CHARNAME will have an option to say goodbye to Erevain to visit his home and never see him again, or he can press for Erevain to stay and aid him through the quests in Throne of Bhaal.

----------------
7. Erevain Starting Mechanical Information
----------------

Commentary: Original Erevain was a Fighter with a custom broadsword weapon. We want to keep that, but also make him worthwhile to pick up as an NPC companion. At the point in time where he'll be picked up, the party may lack or partially lack 1 or two things. A Mage if the player character keeps Imoen as a Charming Rogue or a Thief if the player character converts Imoen to a Mage. As such, our recommendation is for Erevain to be a Fighter/Mage/Thief. This will enable him to fulfill both potentially missing party roles (Mage or Thief) while retaining his original class (Fighter). Why not just a Mage/Thief? Imoen is already basically a Mage Thief with the Charming Rogue Kit and the extra Thac0, weapon proficiencies, and Specialization matter in most routine battles. I don't want to cheat in weapon specialization or extra hp. This will make Erevain useful, but he won't be able to dominate every position within the party: His advancement will be slower, but every level he will gain something sigificant (Figher: more Thac0, Mage: More spells, Thief: More points and 1 new special ability) so he won't be a total drag either. Erevain is intended to wear his Elven Plate Mail +2 for life so that he can fight, cast spells, and use thieving skills at any point desired and not feel that his capabilities are being wasted. Some players do not like triple multiclass characters because of the relatively slower progression (total xp is divided amongst all classes by 3). It's also probably more tolerable to have a slower progression PC than an NPC. To counteract this, Erevain starts with a special family amulet that will boost his experience gain, but at a price. Erevain's sword will need to be changed from a broadsword to a longsword in order to take advantage of backstabbing bonuses. Otherwise it requires modding the allowable thief weapons to backstab which is outside of the scope of this mod.



Name: Erevain Blacksheaf
Race: Elf
Class: Fighter/Mage/Infiltrator (Thief)
Starting XP: Equivalent to Dar
Starting Level: Appropriate Level for Starting XP amount

Str: 18/50
Dex: 18
Con: 12
Int: 17
Wis: 15
Cha: 11

Total attribute points: 91 (same as Dar and 1 less than Imoen).

Weapon Proficiencies:
Long Sword: 2
Single Weapon Style: 2
Longbow: 2


Starting Mage Spells: (Note: What's a good metric for starting NPC spells?)

Level 1:
Identify
Magic Missile
Shocking Grasp
??

Level 2:
Strength
Invisibility
Knock
Luck
??

Level 3:
Non-Detection
Detect Invisibility
??

Level 4:
Non-Detection
Detect Invisibility
Stoneskin

Starting Thief Allocations:

(Focus on Find/Remove Traps)

Starting Equipment:
Elven Plate Mail +2 (to be able to use thieving skills and Mage spells while armored).
Erevain's Broadsword +3
Blacksheaf Family Amulet
+1 Longbow
100 arrows
15 gold

----------------
8. Erevain General Notes
----------------

Infiltrator Kit:

Commentary: Infiltrator is inspired by a kit from the Complete Book of Elves designed for Fighter/Mage/Thieves. The original kit involved bonuses to nonweapon proficiencies, extra non-weapon proficiencies and a special ability to appear as different races. A lot of these aren't valid for Infinity Engine Games or would take an enormous amount of work to implement (appearing as other races). As such the mechanics will be different. In order to make the kit and Erevain NPC competitive, the point of balance taken is from the Charming Rogue Kit. The roleplaying inspiration and justification for this kit was the fact that the original Erevain got into Dragon's Eye past the original guards and crossed over mountains alone. Seemingly, he is able to get into places that others would have trouble getting into.

The infiltrator will gain the ability to cast various spells as special abilities. These spells are inspired by what an "Infiltrator" should be able to do. Some of these supplement or effectively replace Thief abilities (ex. Knock, Invisibility) and this is on purpose. The side effect of these abilities will mean that at level up the Infiltrator will only get 15 thieving points per level. The intention is to get a rotation in order to gain one special ability per level and that the special abilities while useful will not completely overshadow a vanilla thief or alternate Thief Kit via lower points per level.

Events:
Erevain will meet Guthic of Shargaas and then Yalatheniel sometime before completing IWD. Sometime in SoA or ToB, Erevain will meet an Undead Guthic who is more powerful and fight him again. We should consider the possibility of fighting a revenant Yalatheniel in ToB.

Blacksheaf Amulet:
If Erevain dies and the party has his amulet, at some point the party should meet Yalatheniel or some other elf who wants to retrieve the amulet back. They may fight the party if they will not willingly give the item back ala Githyanki. The elves will be "Collectors" from the Complete Book of Elves or some better sounding name organization to return stolen elven artifacts.

Xan may alternatively accept to take the amulet at which point the collectors will not bother the party.

Xan:
Xan will not believe that Erevain is actually alive at first. There will be some initial hostility between them.

Perhaps Yalatheniel was corrupt from the start and that Erevain was meant to believe that he disgraced himself when in reality it was his mentor Yalatheniel who was behind his comrade's killings. Erevain was able to hide and haste away to his safety, but was deeply shamed.


Yalatheniel wants to replace Lord Dursair
Yalatheniel hired Guthic of Shargaas

Should Erevain start out with a Cloak and Boots of Elvenkind designed for him? Perhaps reduce thieving skills to 10 per level?

Assassin within Dragon's Eye aiming for Erevain? Perhaps he should have a scroll on him?

Journey back to Evereska should be dealt with in Epilogues. Romances should follow two paths or at least have two outcomes, one with an Elf <CHARNAME> and another with a non-elf <CHARNAME>. Presumably an elf-elf romance will go better since Erevain is cut from traditional elf outlooks. However, will the fact that Bhaal being a human turned god have an effect on the Elven purity of the elf-elf romance?

Mod should eventually be converted to IWD, IWD in BG2, IWDEE, and BG2EE.

If kicked out too early or never taken, Erevain should leave a corpse in Dragon's Eye. The PC should be free to grab the corpse and cast raise dead / resurrection on it and return Erevain from the dead and have the opportunity to have a dialogue option show up at the bottom when visiting a Priest and pay gold to return Erevain from the dead as well.

In BG2, in the Athkatla graveyard, there should be a caravan or an elven mourner who has Erevain Blacksheaf's bones. The bones would be available immediately or they would have to complete a quest or encounter to get it. After doing so, the player could cast ressurection (not raise dead) or have a dialogue option pop up for a priest in order to pay gold to resurrect Erevain.

The dialogue and undead state of Guthic and Yalatheniel will differ depending on whether Erevain was acquired during IWD or BG2 and whether or not they died in the previous battle with CHARNAME and Erevain. Guthic and Yalatheniel should attack the party if they hold Erevain's body. They want it. Their dialogue with the party should be similarly affected.

Erevain's sword should have multiple upgrades. With a Scroll of Improved Haste, the Sword should become +4 and of Speed (+1 APR). Other options could be of Translocation? (cast Dimension door) Phasing? (Etherealness?) Acidic (acid damage?). By ToB Erevain should be able to add 2 upgrades of choice for an Speed Acidic Sword or something. Perhaps this is too complicated, and we insist that it's one or the other and eventually both. First upgrade makes sword = +4. Second upgrade makes sword = +5
	
----------------
9. Good Bioware NPC Banters
----------------

9.110 Imoen Banter 1
9.110 Outline: Erevain asks Imoen why's she's always so cheery. Her response warms Erevain's heart a little. Imoen asks why he feels a little bit cold and distance. Erevain pauses a bit, but responds that he can't answer. Imoen presses him, but Erevain gets annoyed and refuses to talk further
9.110 Content

Erevain: Imoen, why are you always so cheerful?
Imoen: Well I am most of the time. What's there not to be cheerful about? Birds, music, pages of books that never seem to crease correctly ever again.
Erevain: You warm my heart child. I wish I could remain as spirited as you Imoen.
Imoen: Hey buster, I'm older than you given all of my troubles and torture. What reason do you have to be so cold?
Erevain: I...
Imoen: Yes?
Erevain: ...I cannot answer
Imoen: Sure ya can. Just spit it out already!
Erevain: No, I'm sorry let just move on.
Imoen: Come on Erevain. Lighten up. What's got yer tongue so twisted?
Erevain: I said No Imoen! Leave me be.
Imoen: Geez. Be that way then.

9.120 Imoen Banter 2
9.120 Outline
Erevain asks Imoen if she ever got to visit beautiful places as a child. Imoen responds that she and CHARNAME never got to leave Candlekeep's walls very much, but that she enjoys the beauty of the forests. Erevain smiles and recalls the beauty of the Evereskan forests of his homeland. How he'd traveled up and down every tree so many times that he memorized the names of every tree. Imoen is astonished to know that every tree has a name. She asks if every rock, every road, and every building also has a name in Evereska. Erevain grows a little more silent and says that "Maybe Later." Imoen interrupts and tries to ask what's the matter, but Erevain puts his hand up and repeats "Later, maybe."
9.120 Content

Erevain: Imoen, did you ever manage to visit beautiful places as a young one? Ever get out of that dusty Candlekeep?
Imoen: <CHARNAME> and I rarely got out. We were always chastised that we wouldn't be allowed back inside if we left the walls. I think that was more to scare us than anything. But, there were a few times we got to see outside. When I did, I always wanted to visit the beautiful forests and all of the life they had to show.
Erevain: That reminds me of my home of Evereska. Imoen, we had the most beautiful forests in all of Faerûn. ReEvery tenday I would travel up and down each tree reciting each one's name: Agala, Einid, Ogainithyn, Illesmyin, Nintomyan, Erevain, and so on.
Imoen: Erevain? Really? Did your parents name you after a big stick with greens? What came first, you or the tree?
Erevain: The tree. An ancient exquisite Duskwood that has been growing for centuries prior to my birth. Such namings are not uncommon amongst the elves.
Imoen: So does every coffee mug, every weed, and that pebble over their have names too?
Erevain: You make me smile Imoen. No, Not everything in nature have a name.
Imoen: Well I'd bet your name was a lot better than most other ones out there and it helped make you more famous in Evereska.
Erevain: ...Maybe later
Imoen: What?
Erevain: ...Later. Maybe. Let's continue moving.


9.130 Imoen Banter 3
9.130 Outline
At rest, Imoen tries to pilfer through Erevain's belongings.

9.130 Content

At Rest or Before Waking.

Imoen: Why is Erevain always so moody about his past. Maybe there's something in that journal I seem him writing occasionally.
Imoen: (Sneaks nearby Erevain resting and grabs Erevain's bag)
Erevain: (Quickly turns around and grabs his bag)
Erevain: Do you intend to steal from all your companions!
Imoen: Um, er....no...
Erevain: Do you think that an expert infiltrator doesn't know when he's being inflitrated!
Imoen: I wasn't inflitrating you I...
Erevain: Yes, you were! I'm not as careless as some of these companions
Shar-Teel (if present): Watch where your loose tongue points elfling!
Erevain: I will not be stolen from you harlot!
Imoen: Hey, be careful what you say grumblebutt! Take your stupid bag and journal! (Imoen lets go of Erevain's bag)
Erevain: Be careful that you don't steal what's not yours! There's nothing here that your child mind would be impressed with!


1. CHARNAME: Hey, Imoen shouldn't have tried to take your bag, but do you have to be so mean about it?
2. CHARNAME: I'm sorry about that Erevain, Imoen had no right to take that bag from you.
3. CHARNAME: If you can't defend your bags, then you can't be mad that Imoen wants to take them.
4. CHARNAME: You huffed pretty loudly when you almost lost an item. A thief was mad at a thief for stealing. Is the irony lost on you, Erevain?
5. CHARNAME: Be careful what you say! Imoen has been my friend a long time and she doesn't deserve to be called those names.


1. Erevain: (pats CHARNAME on the shoulder and smiles). You are more than welcome to be nice to rogues who steal from you, and I'm sure they'll be so grateful to you that they won't do it again.
2. Erevain: Thanks. Watch her more carefully. Imoen's harmless thefts could do us a lot of harm eventually. Not all are so forgiving as I am.
3. Erevain: I did defend my bag, thank you. And yes, I can be mad at someone who wants to steal from me.

3.1 CHARNAME: You huffed pretty loudly when you almost lost an item. A thief was mad at a thief for stealing. Is the irony lost on you, Erevain?
3.2 CHARNAME: You're right, my apologies.

4. , 3.1 Erevain: I only steal when I need to or the person I'm stealing from can afford to lose it.

1. CHARNAME: So couldn't you afford to lose the bag? Sounds hypocritical to me.
2. CHARNAME: I don't care much at all for stealing. I'd suggest you cease doing so while you're in this party.
3. CHARNAME: I understand. We all have private things that we aren't ready to share

1. Erevain: I don't answer to you. Leave me be.
2. Erevain: .....
3. ....Thank you

5. Erevain: Then perhaps she shouldn't be taking what is not hers! I don't think anyone in this party signed up to be robbed by fellow members!

5.1 CHARNAME: I don't care what Imoen does! You had better not say those things to her if you want to stay in this group! She has been a friend for a long time and that tone is not welcome!
5.2 CHARNAME: Yes, she shouldn't have done that. But, neither should you say such cruel things to her!

5.1 Erevain: Then perhaps I should leave then. It seems that my well-being isn't important here.
5.2 Erevain: Dear Corellon help me!

5.1.1 CHARNAME: Yes, I think you should leave. I'm sick of your rotten attitude.
5.1.2 CHARNAME: I don't want you to leave Erevain; you need to understand the seriousness of calling Imoen such rotten names.

5.1.1 Erevain: Good riddance. Joining this group was a mistake. Have fun getting stolen from everyone. (Erevan leaves permanently).
5.1.2 Erevain: I'll stay for now. But dear Corellon help me! These people equate stealing with name-calling!


9.140 Imoen Banter 4
9.140 Outline
After Erevain's encounter with Yalatheniel. Erevain apologies to Imoen for his coldness earlier. Imoen reminds him that he called her a harlot. Erevain apologies and they both make up their friendship

9.140 Content

Erevain: I wanted....to apologize to you for my earlier comments.
Imoen: (stands up straight). And, exactly what would those comments be
Imoen: And?
Erevain: And? What?
Imoen: You called me another name too!
Erevain: I did? (Erevain scratches his head a bit).
Erevain: Yes, I apologize for calling you a child.
Imoen: (Smiles) Thank you.
Erevain: (Smiles a bit and sighs). Thank you. You've always been a cheerful and kind companion despite my behavior. Thank you.
Imoen: Well yeah, we can't all be grumblebutts. That wouldn't be much fun. (pokes Erevain playfully).
Erevain: (Laughs). I can see why you and CHARNAME have traveled together for so long.

9.150 Imoen Banter 5
9.150 Outline
During Throne of Bhaal. Erevain tells Imoen a little about his Evereskan home and how he wishes he could show her after all these adventures are over. Imoen says she'd love to visit it with him when the world doesn't require so much saving.

9.150 Content

Erevain: Despite everything, I know that you harbor some good feelings about your home of Candlekeep
Imoen: Ya I do. It was a stuffy uptight place full of fun opportunities to pull pranks. But, it was home.
Erevain: My home was a giant maple tree. Filled with markings of my ancestors generations back until the founding of the Blacksheaf clan. There was laughter and play at every season of each year there. All of my siblings and cousins would play around it together. That tree housed, warmed, and fed us with its delicious syrup.
Imoen: That sounds like a very happy childhood home.
Erevain: I would love to take you there and show it to you one day. I am sure the Evereskans would allow a savior of an elven city to visit with honors.
Imoen: And I would love to visit it with you one day when the world does not require as much saving.
Erevain: That would be most wonderful.


9.210 Minsc Banter 1
9.210 Outline

Erevain asks Minsc if his homeland of Rashemen is as cold as Icewind Dale. Minsc responds that it is indeed very cold and parts of this area remind him of home. Minsc laments that he'd love to meet some of the barbarians nearby. Erevain responds that if he does, Minsc would be most helpful if any conflict were inevitable. Minsc disagrees and says that Boo is his most fearsome weapon and that Evil best be wary lest its butt be kicked.

9.210 Content

Erevain: Minsc, would you consider Rashemen to be as cold as Icewind Dale?
Minsc: Beloved Rashemen was far colder than any puny Dale. Minsc had to use his beserker strength just to warm up Boo. Brr. This place is rather cold and Boo is freezing. Maybe this place is like Rashmen.
Minsc: What's that Boo? Yes. This area does remind me of home. Minsc would love to meet some mighty barbarian warriors here. Such mammoth warriors are an inspiration to all.
Erevain: Well, if we do run into any barbarians. I'll be glad to have you with me Minsc. You are a most formidable weapon.
Minsc: No. Boo is the most fearsome weapon. Evil be wary of his harp claws and pointy teeth!

9.220 Minsc Banter 2
9.220 Outline

Erevain comments that in Elven lands they have an intelligent pet called the Cooshee, a loyal intelligent companion that others erroneously refer to as a breed of dog. Minsc comments that he has an intelligent miniature giant space hamster that someitmes others erroneously refer to as a regular hamster. Erevain scoffs a bit and asks how Minsc knows that Boo is intelligent. Minsc laughs and tells Erevain to ask a series of questions of Boo. Erevain obliges. Erevain asks Boo to stand. Minsc whispers to Boo and Boo stands. Erevain asks Boo to roll around. Minsc whispers to Boo to roll around and Boo does so. Erevain asks Boo to name of the days of the tenday. Minsc whispers to Boo and Boo squeaks back. Minsc repeats "Firstday, Secondday, Thirdday, Fourthday, Fifthday, Sixthday, Seventhday, Eigthday, Ninthday, and Tenday" Erevain slightly annoyed says that Boo is only responding to Minsc's comments and that its just Minsc reciting the days of the Tenday. Minsc laughs telling Erevain that it's not Minsc's or Boo's fault that Erevain doesn't speak Giant Space Hamster, but don't worry they don't question that Erevain is intelligent.

9.220 Content

Erevain: In Elven lands we have intelligent pets called Cooshees. They are often erroneously referred to as a breed of dogs by outsiders.
Minsc: Boo is an intelligent miniature giant space hamster which others foolishly refer to as a normal hamster.
Erevain: Hah, how do you know that Boo is intelligent?
Minsc: You are funny elf. Go ahead. Ask Boo any question. He is a very smart
Erevain: Boo. Roll around
Minsc: (whispers to Boo).
Minsc: See there he did.
Erevain: What are the days of the Tenday?
Minsc: (whispers to Boo).
Minsc: Firstday, Seconday, Thirdday, Fourthday, Fifthday, Sixthday, Seventhday, Eigthday, Ninthday, Tenthday
Erevain: Grrr. You are the the one reciting these answers. Not Boo!
Minsc: Haha. Erevain, it is not Minsc or Boo's fault that you do not speak Giant Space Hamster. Do no worry. We Minsc and Boo do not doubt your intelligence though.


9.230 Minsc Banter 3
9.230 Outline
9.230 Content

9.310 Aerie
9.310 Outline
9.310 Content

Erevain: Aerie. I'm sorry; I feel so sorry for you.
Aerie: Thank you for your pity Erevain. It is hard, but I just have to make the best of the situation. I do have help though. Quayle, Baervan, <CHARNAME>, and now you Erevain.
Erevain: Aerie. You're a lovely woman and we here are all very lucky to have you traveling with us. I just can't wait to see what comes ahead!
Aerie: Erevain, you are so sweet. Come, let us continue on.


9.320 Aerie
9.320 Outline
9.320 Content

Aerie: Erevain. What is beauty?
Erevain: Beauty is what is desirous. What tantalizes the senses and brings that instant sense of awe.
Aerie: So, lust is beauty?
Erevain: Not quite. True beauty is something we're simply instantly attracted to; it is something we want to have or be around
Aerie: So, beauty is lust
Erevain: Hmm. I guess it is hard to separate two.
Aerie: Beauty is just a quality. Lust is just a way to appreciate that beauty in a way that is too much.
Erevain: I have a lust for life and if that is too much, so be it!
Aerie: Of that I am sure Erevain.


9.410 Nalia
9.410 Outline
9.410 Content

before or after rest

Erevain: Nalia, I do not understand. How can you humans stand this food?
Nalia: What do you mean Erevain?
Erevain: This food is just...hard to swallow. I can't believe that you all eat this regularly.
Nalia: This is just roasted meat! Elves do eat meat right?
Erevain: Sparingly, but yes. Ugh...
Nalia: What's the matter Erevain?
Erevain: I don't think my stomach can handle this roughness.
(If present) Valygar: This poor elf's lot isn't going to get any easier with what I catch

9.420 Nalia
9.420 Outline
9.420 Content

Erevain: So, how long did you stay in De'Arnise Keep when you were young?
Nalia: I'm not sure what you mean by that question, good elf.
Erevain: Were you not bored? Did you not grow tired of that stone fortress?
Nalia: Of course I did. Which is why I learned ways to sneak out of the walls many a time and in fact learned magic to aid me in my escapes.
Erevain: I was never so lucky. Even if I wanted to escape Evereska, I'd have been caught almost immediately by the Vale Guards.
Nalia: So you loved your home enough to not want to leave it. How is that unlucky?
Erevain: I suppose I may have tried to leave it if I knew that it weren't so well defended.
Nalia: And, yet you have left it. After so many years. Do you miss it?
Erevain: ....Yes. I...No. I'm sorry. Let us continue. I can say no more.
Nalia: Alright Erevain. As you wish.


9.510 Keldorn
9.510 Outline
Erevain asks Keldorn how he can stand to wear such bulky and orange armor.

9.510 Content

Erevain: Sir Keldorn. How can you stand to wear such bulky and orange armor? Don't you just wish to take it off immediately?
Keldorn: Lord Keldorn. And, this is my family armor, passed down from generation to generation. I honor them by wearing it and besides, I'm more nimble in it than you'd normally think.
Erevain: (puts his hands on the armor and pulls up). But, it's still so weighty. How can you stand it?
Keldorn: Get your thieving hands off of me. This armor suits my family and I well enough. Not every armor is a shade of brown or green and elvenmade
Erevain: But, they're so much more comfortable and beautiful don't you think?
Keldorn: I do not and prefer my own. A sure way to disappoint an elven thief is surely to place large heavy items in their paths. Good day to you.

9.520 Keldorn
9.520 Outline
Erevain asks why Keldorn wanted to join the Order of the Radiant Heart rather than becoming a sellsword. Keldorn responds that that is an impertinent question and that the Order of the Radiant Heart is far more prestigious and praiseworthy way to live one's life rather than be dedicated to one's coinpurse.

9.520 Content


9.610 Valygar
9.610 Valygar Outline
Erevain complements Valygar on his stealth capabilities, complimenting him. Valygar acknowledges likewise.

9.610 Valygar Content

Valygar: I notice that you seem to disappear fairly well Erevain.
Erevain: Thank you. As do you Valygar.
Valygar: Who taught you such skills
Erevain: I learned it from the Greycloaks. Elves are the greatest masters of stealth. The cloak of elvenkind is highly sought by all races
Valygar: Hmph. We'll see. I have heard of that cloak. Do you have one?
Erevain: No, and you aren't getting one either.
Valygar: I don't need it. My stealth is well enough developed. Come let us move on.

9.620 Valygar
9.620 Valygar Outline
Erevain attempts to teach Valygar a spell, but he refuses for now. Erevain thinks it's a waste for a man with so much magic in his veins to deny its use. Valygar responds that indulging into his magical heritage is what worries him the most.

9.620 Valygar Content


Erevain: Come Valygar, with your aptitude you would make an excellent Mage. Let me teach you a simple spell
Valygar: Another time perhaps.
Erevain: Come now Valygar. It's a waste for a man with so much magic in his veins do deny such a capability.
Valygar: Indulging in my magical heritage is what worries me the most.
Erevain: I remain ready to teach when your courage surfaces
Valygar: I thank you Erevain.


9.710 Mazzy Fentan
9.710 Outline
Mazzy asks Erevain what it's like to be an Elven Knight. Ere

9.710 Content
Mazzy: Good Erevain tell me what it is like to be an Elven Knight
Erevain: Why do you ask my lady? Do you think me a knight?
Mazzy: Almost good sir, you merely need a boost to yet become one should you wish. Surely though, you knew of some from your homeland?
Erevain: Yes, there were the Swords of Evereska, a group of Fighters, Wizards, and Paladins. I'm sure you would like them.
Mazzy: I would! Tell me of them, what are they like? What tests and challenges do you have to face to join them?
Erevain: I'm sorry Mazzy. Let's talk about about something else.
Mazzy: Good Erevain, I meant no offense. What was it that I said?
Erevain: Enough; enough. No more...

9.720 Mazzy Fentan
9.720 Outline
Erevain asks Mazzy if Halflings ever incorporate dancing into their fighting. Mazzy says that halflings are more concerned about defending their homes and possessions than having an artistic flair

9.720 Content
Erevain: Mazzy, do halflings ever dance in battle?
Mazzy: What strange Elvish question is this? Why would my kind dance in battle?
Erevain: Sometimes it's entertaining to add additional twirls, flips, and thrusts while fighting your enemies
Mazzy: I assure you that halflings fight very hard to defend themselves, their homes, and their families, they are not the least concerned about using such "flair"
Erevain: Halflings are so agile though! Not even a little somersault?
Mazzy: Only if absolutely necessary.
Erevain: I'd love to see you perform one, Mazzy!
Mazzy: Another time Erevain.

----------------
10. Neutral Bioware NPC Banters
----------------

10.110 Jaheira
10.110 Outline
Erevain asks Jaheira if she ever wished she were a full elf? Jaheira is annoyed by Erevain's arrogant question.

10.110 Content

Erevain: Jaheira, have you ever wished that you were a full elf?
Jaheira: Why would I wish to be anything than what I am?
Erevain: Well, you wouldn't be a half-breed. You would be free to roam the elven strongholds and city without escort.
Jaheira: Stop, I care not for this arrogant prattle. Speak no more to me of this.

10.120 Jaheira
10.120 Outline
Erevain asks Jaheira if half-elves are more likely to marry than elves. Jaheira is annoyed by the question and continuing racial angle. Jaheira says no and asks if Erevain has ever been married. Erevain grows silent and Jaheira is quick to crack an observation that Erevain can dish it but not take it.

10.120 Content

Erevain: Jaheira, would you say that half-elves are more likely to marry than full elves?
Jaheira: Again, with this strain. What compels you to ask such arrogant questions?
Jaheria: No, I do not believe half-elves marry more than elves. Have you ever been marriied.
Erevain: I.....I do not want to answer that question.
Jaheira; Oh mighty Erevain, why do you avoid the question?
Erevain: I simply do not want to answer it! It is inane.
Jaheira: Oh, such a wise knowledgeable figure cannot answer a simple question.
Erevain: Grr...That's hardly fair Jaheira. No more questions! Let us be off.
Jaheira: Yes, it is one to sling such barbs; it is another to receive them.

10.210 Yoshimo
10.210 Outline
Erevain and Yoshimo compare their thieving skills with each other and compare Kara-Turan to Evereskan techniques.

10.210 Content

Yoshimo: I have watched you work Erevain and I am most impressed.
Erevain: Thank you, but what impressed you so much?
Yoshimo: Your sly skill of finding snares. I do such work to hide mine, and yet you consistently seem to find those of others. How do your eyes see so well?
Erevain: Natural skill enhanced by magic.
Yoshimo: Hah. Without such magics you are an inferior rogue no?
Erevain: Perhaps. I have much to learn and would do well to learn from one such as yourself. You display such skill in your trapmaking. I have no idea how you accomplish what you do.
Yoshimo: Well, Young Mantis. Your training begins now.
Erevain: I look forward to it.

10.220 Yoshimo
10.220 Outline
Erevain asks Yoshimo to show him some of the tricks, Yoshimo used to display for tourists. Erevain tries to emulate Yoshimo with good laughs from all around.

10.220 Content

Yoshimo: Young Mantis, come i have some tricks to show you that the tourists love.
Yoshimo: (flips in the air with a mid-air kick before landing) Hi-yo-cha!
Erevain: Alright, let me try.
Erevain: (flips in the air with an awkward kick). Hee-Oh-... (Erevain hits his face on the ground)
Yoshimo: Ooh. That will leave a mark. Poor Mantis. Well. Best to get up and try again! Come come Young Mantis!

10.310 Anomen
10.310 Outline

Erevain chides Anomen about the Order. Anomen doesn't appreciate the insult. Erevain talks about the Swords of Evereska.

10.310 Content

Erevain: A Knight of the Order of the Radiant Heart eh? What compels you so much to join a lanky old organization like that?
Anomen: Watch your tongue elf. The Order is a most heroic organization that even rogues like yourself should be jealous of. Many a great deed hath been done its brave knights.
Erevain: The Swords of Evereska have prospered for far longer and served many a more people.
Anomen: Yes, I've heard of them. Noble deeds I'm sure, but for elves only. The Order of the Radiant Heart works for the good of all.
Erevain: The Swords of Evereska have done many a good as well. And actively seek out to help others.
Anomen: Other elves that is. If you can enter Evereska's Hidden Vale, which non-elves cannot visit. The Order of the Radiant Heart is open to all in seeking justice. Good intentions from your elven counterparts perhaps, but not in deeds.
Erevain: ...
Anomen: Hmm. Thank you Erevain for your acknowledgement.

10.320 Anomen 2
10.320 Outline

Anomen chides Erevain that he had to bring him back from the dead.

10.320 Content

Anomen: Watch yourself there. You look a bit rough after our last battle.
Erevain: Thank you Anomen for your help. You have yet a few skills that I do not possess. You are a worthy ally.
Anomen: I thank you Erevain. Many of my skills come from Helm's will and blessing.
Erevain: Nonetheless, still impressive. Despite my w orship of Corellon, I have never been able to receive the divine magics.
Anomen: With just a little more piety, you could focus on a whole other set of abilities.
Erevain: Oh no. It is difficult enough dividing my current focus already. Besides, I have you friend to aid me in that department.
Anomen: That you do Erevain. It is an honor to serve beside you.


10.410 Jan
10.410 Outline
Jan weaves a tale of visiting Evereska while Erevain patiently acknowledges point by point until Erevain reveals that everything he said was faulty, none of the places he mentioned existed on Evereska, Jan ends by noting "but on the plane of Shadow, they do!"

10.410 Content

Jan: So, you're from Evereska Erevain?
Erevain: Yes I am.
Jan: Well, I've been to Evereska before with my second great uncle once removed Numit.

10.420 Jan
10.420 Outline
Jan asks Erevain if it's being an elf. Erevain replies no. Jan weaves a tale about his uncle twice removed who became an elf and had a terrible time.

10.420 Content

Jan: So, how is it being an elf Erevain?
Erevain: I am fine being an elf Jan.
Jan: My third great uncle Nesmot was an elf for a long time. His large floppy ears made all the elven ladies swoon over and over after him. Unfortunately, male elves jealous of his ears stole his earwax one day and that was the end of his run.
Erevain: Yes, elves without earwax is a great tragedy.
Jan: It was. Nesmot's ears grew smaller and smaller and less pointy and less pointy. His confidence shrunk and so did his height. And, that's how Nesmot came back to the Jansens. He just didn't have the earwax to make it as an elf.
Erevain: Well. What an amazing story.
Jan: Oh there's more to Nesmot's journey than that especially the time he met a mucousy medusae.
Erevain: I can't wait.


10.430 Jan
10.430 Outline
Jan tells the story of the mucousy medusae

10.430 Content

Jan: I never got to tell you the story of my third great uncle Nesmot and the mucousy medusae did I?
Erevain: No Jan. We are all really longing to hear it.
Jan: Well, be long no more elven friend. You see Nesmot had just a regular inferior nose that most races like yourself have.
Erevain: Excuse me?
Jan: It's simply a fact that Gnomes truly have the best schnozzes in the whole crystal sphere. Nesmot's nose unfortunately could not make par. After a bit too much to drink, Nesmot ended up in the clutches of a medusa and a maedar. The snake lovers got into an argument and upon seeing Nesmot's puny nose and the maedar's handsome one, the medusa wanted to punish her mate. The medusa quickly turned them both into stone, chopped their noses off and switched them out before returning them to flesh again. The maedar was weepingly furious but ol Nesmot was dancing as happy as could be. His new giant green nose was the talk of the town and all the gnomish ladies now swooned for him.
Erevain: Wait what about the mucous?
Jan: Oh yes, well you see that maedar nose while handsome had a real sneezing problem. Nesmot gathered all the mucous and donated it to others and they too saw their noses grow and grow and grow.
Erevain: Big and green?
Jan: At first. Though the green color eventually muted out. The big noses spread like ketchup seeds and that's how gnomes got their beautiful schnozzes.

10.510 Haer'Dalis
10.510 Outline
10.510 Content

Haer'Dalis: Tell me Erevain, in what ways do elves of your ilk occupy themselves with acting and the performing arts?
Erevain: We have several elven festivals where actors and actresses play out the parts of gods in ancient tales or as important elven monarchs and figures of the past
Haer'Dalis: What about new plays? New stories? New tales?
Erevain: I can't say those are generally told in the format that you're most fond of.
Haer'Dalis: How unfortunate. When did elves become so boring. Wouldn't you like to be able to play a king? A beggar, a guard, a vigilante, a lover?
Erevain: Elves live a lot longer than most humanoids Haer'Dalis. We already get to play so many roles in a lifetime.
Haer'Dalis: But, you can't play all of them.
Erevain: That's what magic is for. Become a man or a woman. Or a human or halfling and so forth.
Haer'Dalis: Hmm. Most peculiar. Even such magics cannot substitute the immense feeling of truly becoming something other than yourself. You should take some time and try art of acting yourself.
Erevain: Perhaps I shall


10.520 Haer'Dalis 2
10.520 Outline

Haer'Dalis refers to Erevain as a Leopard
10.520 Content

Haer'Dalis: So my Leopard, how dost thou fare on this fine day
Erevain: Leopard? Really? Why am I a leopard?
Haer'Dalis: You are quick, light, and graceful, but also a deadly enemy skilled in ambushes and quick strikes!
Erevain: Well thank you Haer'Dalis. I shall have to find an animal to call you by.
Haer'Dalis: But, I have such a name already, Sparrow.
Erevain: I don't think that name suits you well.
Haer'Dalis: I've played the Sparrow for a long time!
Erevain: I think you'd be much better as a Black-capped Chickadee. A confused darkly bird that doesn't know what it is.
Haer'Dalis: That is much too long a name! No, no no! Sparrow is my animal!
Erevain: As you wish.



10.610 Cernd
10.610 Outline
10.610 Content

Cernd: I have always wondered why so few elves find their calling within druidic circles
Erevain: I suppose that's because elves already have a close tie to nature.
Cernd: I suppose many races do, but unlike many others they weave so much of their life and magic into preserving and enhancing their natural surroundings.
Erevain: Well...er....um
Cernd: I've heard many tales of elven cities. So wondrous! Such an exquisite testament to nature's beauty!
Erevain: Cernd..I think I...
Cernd: I know! You have likely seen such cities in your life before. Surely, compared to those, most other locales must be so bland!
Cernd: Erevain.
Cernd: Erevain. Why are you leaving?

10.620 Cernd 2
10.620 Outline
10.620 Content


Cernd: Out of all the talents you could have developed. Why did you never develop one for nature's magic?
Erevain: I don't know Cernd. Why didn't you ever develop a talent for egg balancing?
Cernd: I"m being serious Erevain. The magic that druids use is very special and I'm surprised that someone who has spent so much time in their life being around nature doesn't interest in its inmost wondrous workings
Erevain: Oh, I am being serious Cernd. Look at me!
Erevain: {balances an egg on his nose with his head lifted up while standing on one foot)
Erevain: Pretty impressive huh?
Cernd: Oh never mind....

----------------
11. Evil Bioware NPC Banters
----------------

11.110 Korgan
11.110 Outline
11.110 Content

Korgan: So Erevain, How many elves can ya scewer o'er a fire?
Erevain: Leave me be with your foul humor
Korgan: Ah come on. Have'a sense of humor. How many elves can ya scewer o'er a fire?.
Erevain: (sigh) I don't know.
Korgan: Not many 'cause they ain't got much meat on'em! Har! Har! Har!
Erevain: That's both crude and unfunny.
Korgan: Bah, you ain't got any better.
Erevain: None of your kind surely

11.120 Korgan
11.120 Outline
11.120 Content

Korgan: How do ya like my ears, elf!
Erevain: Ugh. They don't match your color.
Korgan: That's true I s' pose. Still I picked them myself an prettied them up as best as I could.
Erevain: You...got those from living drow didn't you?
Korgan: Well, they weren't quite living after my axe tore straight through their gullet!
Erevain: Yes...I think I will take my leave now.
Korgan: Bah. You tain't no fun! You of all races should be'a happy ta see dead drow ears!


11.130 Korgan
11.130 Outline
11.130 Content

Korgan: Do you know why I don't elves.
Erevain: Because we're refined, elegant, and articulate unlike you Korgan?
Korgan: Na. It's cause you're humorless spinless fools who don't have anything useful to say that isn't wrapped up in some poff'ery of undeserved importance.
Erevain: Hah. Elves are probably one of the most fun loving races out there. Singing, dancing, music, and drinking are things that every elf loves.
Korgan: Drinking? Bah. Those pathetic Elven wines don't taste right or do anything for real intoxication.
Erevain: Yes, I suppose dwarves like you only care for drinking and not for anything else remotely interesting.
Erevain: Take a look at these moves.
Erevain: (twists around in a rapid spinning motion)
Erevain: (flips over landing with feet angled toward the sky)
Erevain: (clicks heels together while raising one arm to the side and another straight up)
Erevain: Woo! Now that is a dance move!
Korgan: Pardon while I go salt my eyes.


11.210 Viconia
11.210 Outline
11.210 Content

before rest

Viconia: Yes, I see you hiding [drow insult]
Erevain: [elven phrase for annoyed]
Viconia: Drow eyes see clearly in the darkness
Erevain: How exactly does that work? One must have light in order to see!
Viconia: I shall reveal no such secrets to you, darthiir.
Erevain: I shall find out soon enough, Saurar!

11.220 Viconia
11.220 Outline
11.220 Content
Viconia: So, tell me lost little elf. Why is it again that you left home so long ago? Mommy and Daddy weren't nice to you?
Erevain: You Drow are a mockery of everything decent. Why do you purposefully seek to torment me like this?
Viconia: Touched a soft nerve have I poor elfling? I'll try to be more careful about your delicate nature.
Erevain: Don't speak to me again. If I have to use a spell to hide from you, so be it.


11.310 Edwin
11.310 Outline


11.310 Content

Edwin: Tell me my confused companion. Why do you spend your talents in three directions? Wouldn't it be ease your monkey brain to focus on fewer endeavors.
Erevain: I never really fit into just one category. I got bored being just a Fighter or just a Mage or just a Thief. I found that I had multiple aptitudes. Don't you get tired of doing the same thing Edwin?
Edwin: The same thing?! A Red Wizard does far more than just one thing! A Conjurer does far more than than just one thing!
Erevain: Yes, but you just summon more things right? A few more hobgoblins, an extra ogre here and there.
Edwin: (These miserable simians know nothing). your knowledge of magic is so fractured, you're likely to throw your sword thinking that's casting a spell.
Erevain: You're right Edwin. I really am just so scatterbrained that I can't properly understand magic.
Edwin: Oooh. You are a little smarter than I thought. Perhaps you can graduate from gorilla to orangutan
Erevain: Hey Edwin, what's that over there?
Edwin: Does your small brain think that I will actually fall for that trick? (always with these pompous monkeys)
Erevain: Actually you already have. Look behind you.
Edwin: You senile simian, I will not fall for....My Necklace! Why is it on the ground!
Erevain: Actually it's right here in my pocket see?
Ediwn: GAH! Give me both of those! Which one is the real one! (thieving monkeys. I will cut their little digits off one by one).

11.320 Edwin
11.320 Outline
Erevain asks Edwin why he chose to become a Conjurer and not just a regular mage. Edwin responds that all Red Wizards must choose a school specialization under one of the eight zulkirs

11.320 Content

Erevain: So Edwin, why become a Conjurer? Why not an Invoker or Transmuter for instance?

Edwin: "A regular mage? (pathetic simple simians unable to comprehend). A Conjurer is anything but irregular. Truly valuable is a specialist who can complete their magic to its highest form. Not some pathetic generalist who isn't good at anything.
Erevain: I take offense to that Edwin. I am quite an accomplished good mage.
Edwin: Bah. (imbecilic monkeys thinking they understand the Art). Your powers are even more diluted! I would gladly take any other mage, even a pathetic generalist, instead of you.
Erevain: My power is far more than the sum of my individual parts as you should already know Edwin. And perhaps I'll be a little less generous protecting you next time.
Edwin: I do not need your protection elf. I am well powerful enough on my own.
Erevain: Then why do stand in the back Edwin? I can just as well lead and bear the front assaults.
Edwin: Yes, you are right. Powerful Erevain lead away. (let the simple simian bear the harm instead of me).

11.330 Edwin
11.330 Outline
11.330 Content

11.410 Sarevok
11.410
11.410 Content

Erevain: So Sarevok, have you ever given thought to expanding your abilities away from Fighter?

If Sarevok Class = Not Mage & Not Thief then "No and I do not intend to."
Erevain: Perhaps you should. I could be a great teacher for you. To teach one as big and burly as you to sneak like Erevan Ilesere or casty mighty spells like Labelas Enoreth would be a grand feat indeed!
Sarevok: I have no interest in serving your mocking amusement
Erevain: Oh come now Sarevok. I would have so much to teach you. Don't you think that it would be fun to learn from me?
Sarevok: The horrors of the Abyss have taken from me whatever "fun" there was left in me.
Erevain: Oh bother.

If Sarevok Class = Mage , Yes I am complimenting myself with skill in the arcane arts.

Erevain: You know Sarevok, I am a pretty accomplished Mage myself. I could teach you many spell techniques and magical formulae. To teach a muscle head like you elegant spells would be a grand feat indeed.
Sarevok: I have no interest in serving your mocking amusement
Erevain: Oh come now Sarevok. I would have so much to teach you. Don't you think that it would be fun to learn from me?
Sarevok: The horrors of the Abyss have taken from me whatever "fun" there was left in me.
Erevain: Oh bother.


If Sarevok Class = Thief , Yes I am complimenting my steel with my father's techniques of stealth.

Erevain: You know Sarevok, I am a pretty accomplished Infiltrator. I could teach you how to get into places no one else can enter, to hide such that none can find you and so much more. To train your burly body to meld into the shadows would be a grand feat indeed.
Sarevok: I have no interest in serving your mocking amusement
Erevain: Oh come now Sarevok. I would have so much to teach you. Don't you think that it would be fun to learn from me?
Sarevok: The horrors of the Abyss have taken from me whatever "fun" there was left in me.
Erevain: Oh bother.

11.420 Sarevok
11.420 Outline
11.420 Content

Erevain: So Sarevok, have any regrets in your life?
Sarevok: I have few regrets and will not share them with the likes of you.
Erevain: Come now Sarevok. How can you learn and grow if you don't talk about our mistakes.
Sarevok: It is beyond pointless to discuss what could have been instead of what is.
Erevain: Pointless perhaps, but you didn't say that you were without regrets.
Sarevok: Leave me be elf. I have no use for your pretentious prattling nor would I share such things with your intrusive ears.
Erevain: But Sarevok are you.....
Sarevok: LEAVE ME BE ELF!

----------------
12. NEJ NPC Banters
----------------

12.110 Shar-Teel
12.110 Outline

Shar-Teel warns Erevain not to look her way. Erevain shrugs her dismissively. Shar-Teel warns Erevain that she will only tolerate him because of CHARNAME.

12.120 Content

Shar-teel: Do not look my way elfling.
Erevain: I'm not looking your way at all.
Shar-teel: I tolerate your pathetic elfhood only because of <CHARNAME>. Cross the line and your gullet will be spewed tenfold over.

12.120 Shar-Teel
12.120 Outline

Erevain asks Shar-Teel about her heritage. Shar-Teel tells Erevain to ask someone else because she's done talking with pathetic male elflings. Erevain comments that rude amazons don't have much clout nor does anyone here like listening to their rubbish threats. Shar-Teel pulls out her sword and warns him to keep his elfling mouth shut or she'll cut Erevain open, CHARNAME willing or not. "I would skewer my own family if they went too far, how much less so a pathetic elf male".

12.120 Content

Erevain: Tell me of your heritage Shar-teel. You came from Baldur's Gate, yes?
Shar-Teel: Ask someone else Erevain. I do not talk to poor male elflings.
Erevain: Rude amazons don't have much clout in greater Faerûn. I am sure that everyone else tires of hearing your rubbish threats.
Shar-Teel: Keep your pathetic elfling mouth shut or I'll cut it out of you, <CHARNAME> willing or not.
Shar-Teel: I would skewer my own family for such words, much less so an imbecile as you.


12.130 Shar-Teel
12.130 Outline

Shar-Teel warns Erevain to stop looking her way. "I told you before to place your pathetic gaze elsewhere. I shall not warn you again elfling!" Erevain tells her to shut up and that he wasn't looking her way and that the most perverted Calimshite wouldn't be tempted to even considering looking at her. Shar-Teel says "That's it!" Shar-Teel and Erevain Blacksheaf automatically equip their melee weapons and enter a cutscene where they fight each other with melee attacks. Shar-Teel and Erevain are both given a temporary effect similar to Imoen's belt where neither of them can go below 1 HP.


The fight commences. If Erevain is reduced to one hp, he is scripted to be knocked down and stay down until Shar-Teel finishes her dialogue. "Next time, you won't get up." Shar-teel kicks Erevain Blacksheaf in the groin and he wails in pain. If Shar-Teel is reduced to one hp, she is scripted to be knocked down and stay down until Erevain finishes his dialogue. "No more threats from you ever again" Erevain inches closer to her and whispers "I can attack more locations than just the front"

12.130 Content

Shar-Teel: I told you before to place your pathetic gaze elsewhere. This is your last warning elfling!
Erevain: Oh just shut up! I long tire of your baseless threats. I wasn't looking your way and even the most perverted Calimshite would never be tempted to look your way.
Shar-Teel: That's it!

FIGHT COMMENCES:
Shar-Teel and Erevain Blacksheaf automatically equip their melee weapons and enter a cutscene where they fight each other with melee attacks. Shar-Teel and Erevain are both given a temporary effect similar to Imoen's belt where neither of them can go below 1 HP.

IF Shar-Teel WINS
Shar-Teel: Next time, you won't get up. (Shar-Teel kicks Erevain in the groin).
Erevain: Aaagh!

If Erevain WINS
Erevain: No more threats from you ever again
Erevain: (Erevain inches closer to Shar-Teel and whispers) I can attack more locations than just the front.

12.210 Dar
12.210 Outline
Erevain asks Dar how he feels about all the Orcs, Dar's people, that ravage and kill Elves, Erevain's people. Dar responds that he's not like those orcs and that he was raised by priests of Ilmater to be kind, just, and merciful. Erevain retorts that a spider is still a spider and cannot overcome its nature.


12.210 Content

Erevain: How do you feel about your people Dar?
Dar: My people?
Erevain: Yes, orcs. Those savages that pillage and kill civilized beings including the elves, my people.
Dar: I am unlike those orcs. I was raised by priests of Ilmater to be kind, just, and merciful.
Erevain: A spider is still a spider and cannot overcome its nature.
Dar: I hope to prove my nature as a noble one.

12.220 Dar
12.220 Outline

Erevain asks Dar how many times he has beaten someone and stolen someone's property. Dar doesn't understand the question as Ilmater expressly forbids such behavior. Erevain says that that doesn't matter. Orcs are well known thugs and Dar is one of their kind. So Dar, stop avoiding the question. How many times have you beaten someone or stolen property? Dar responds that he's never stolen anything nor harmed any innocents. Erevain gets annoyed with Dar. "A spider is still a spider"

12.220 Content


Erevain: How many times have you beaten someone or stolen property Dar?
Dar: I do not understand. Ilmater forbids such behavior
Erevain: That doesn't matter. Orcs are murderous thieving mongrels. Thugs: all of them. So I ask you again, how many times have you beaten someone or stole property?
Dar: I have never stolen anything nor harmed any innocents
Erevain: A spider is still a spider.

12.230 Dar
12.230 Outline

12.230 Content

(After the encounter with Yalatheniel).
Erevain: You've been very loyal to the group Dar.
Dar: Such is the teaching of Ilmater and my nature.
Erevain. (thinks a moment). Yes, perhaps you are different. I thank you Dar.
Dar: Your welcome. As Always I shall serve to do good in the world.

12.310 Accalia
12.310 Outline
Erevain asks Accalia if Tempurans have any memorable festivals that they celebrate. Accalia asks why Erevain would ask such a question. Erevain says that he misses the Lateu'quor, or translated in the common tongue as the Forest Communion of the Crescent Moon. "The most beautiful sight you'd ever see. Exquisite dancing, drinking, music, and art of all kinds. Rarely, Corellon bestows a special gift at these celebrations: A piece of Art, a Harp, a suit of Armor." "Wow, that's impressive." "It is. In fact, this sword was one of the gifts on one of those rare nights. The Feywarden of Corellon chose me to receive it". Accalia laughs "Out of all the elves of Evereska, why'd you get it?" "I don't know. To this day I don't know. My brothers and cousins were so jealous! The sword has served me well though." "I envy you Erevain of Corellon, I hope that Tempus will honor me in such a way one day. "Erevain smiles. Perhaps he shall!"

12.310 Content

Erevain: Do Tempurans have any major festivals that they celebrate?
Accalia: Why do you ask such a question Erevain?
Erevain: I miss the Lateu'quor. It roughly translates in the common tongue as the Forest Communion of the Crescent Moon. It has the most beautiful sight you'd ever see. Exquisite dancing, drinking, music, and art of all kinds. Rarely, Corellon bestows a special gift at these celebrations: A piece of Art, a Harp, or even a suit of Armor.
Accalia: My, that's impressive.
Erevain: It is. In fact, this sword was one of the gifts on one of those rare nights. The Feywarden of Corellon chose me to receive it.
Accalia: Out of all the elves of Evereska, why were you chosen for that honor?
Erevain: I do not know. To this day I do not know. My brothers and cousins were so jealous. The sword has served me well though.
Accalia: I envy you Erevain of Corellon; I hope that Tempus will honor me in such a way one day.
Erevain: I have no doubt that He shall!

12.320 Accalia
12.320 Outline
Accalia asks Erevain if he thinks that priests or warriors are preferred by the gods. Erevain asks Accalia what she means. "Corellon seemed to favor you for some reason" "Tru


12.320 Content

Accalia: Corellon seemed to favor you for some reason
Erevain: True, yes.
Accalia: Yet, how many more priests of Corellon never received his direct favor in that way.
Erevain: Yes, I suppose. But, the gods can't favor all of their servants can they? Else, favored wouldn't mean anything right?
Accalia: But why is it that many times the god's most devoted servants are not among the god's first chosen?
Erevain: I'm sure that Tempus favors plenty of his priests. Why do you doubt that Tempus does not favor you? You seem to have done quite well. Tempus does grant you spells does he not?
Accalia: He does. I suppose that I can be impatient at times. I want to do great things to honor Tempus and his church.
Erevain: I'm sure that you shall and I shall be here to assist.
Accalia: (smiles). Thank you Erevain.

12.330 Accalia
12.330 Outline
Erevain asks Accalia about

12.330 Content
Erevain: Accalia, we talked before, but you never told me about the Tempuran festivals.
Accalia: Once per year, Tempurans celebrate the Feast of the Moon. On that day under the full moonlight, we have a large feast accompanied by a set of rituals and prayers honoring the fallen warriors and paying tribute to the fallen warriors to come. Sometimes the children put on plays reliving famous battles.
Erevain: That sounds gruesome.
Accalia: (glares at Erevain). The weapons are blunted and precautions are made to ensure that none of the child actors are hurt. (smiles) In fact, one year as a child I got to play as Tempus himself fully hidden and concealed behind a helmet and riding on two ponies representing his steeds, Veiros and Deiros. It was frightening to be wearing such heavy armor and having to stand with one foot on each of the two ponies, but was nonetheless thrilling and great fun.
Erevain: I suppose that sounds like fun, but you couldn't play as any famous female warrior or heroine?
Accalia: The boy who was supposed to portray Tempus hurt his back and we needed a quick replacement. Since I was about the same stature, they chose me for the role. Tempus has never been known to speak directly on Faerun. So, the role was silent which also suited me well.
Erevain: That's nice, but I still think that it's a shame that your "fun" had to involve you becoming a man.
Accalia: It is a great honor to portray Tempus. Tempus is the most sublime heroic deities that Faerûn who has armed and defended these lands for hundreds of years. I would gladly become Tempus, man or not and am honored to have him as my deity.
Erevain: And you thought that you weren't favored? It seems that Tempus is equally fortunate to have such a devoted priestess as you.
Accalia: (laughs). You are right Erevain. I should be more mindful of Tempus's blessings.
Erevain: Absolutely, afterall, he brought us together with Hrothgar and CHARNAME. I'm sure we'll find even greater glories that you can pen in Tempus's honor
Accalia: (smiles). Yes indeed. Let us continue.

12.410 Hrothgar
12.410 Outline

Erevain asks Hrothgar why out of all the Ten Towns, he chose Easthaven. Hrothgar responds that it's the one that seemed to fit the best for him, the one most comfortable for him and the one where he seemed to have the most friendly neighbors. Hrothgar asks why Erevain has never settled down anywhere Erevain responds that he loves to travel, to see Abeir-Toril and all that is therin

12.410 Content

Erevain: Why out of all the Ten Towns, did you choose Easthaven Hrothgar?
Hrothgar: Easthaven seemed the best fit for me. It was and still is quite comfortable with enough friendly neighbors.
Hrothgar: Why have you Erevain never settled down in all your travels?
Erevain: I love to travel. I want to see all of Abeir-Toril across and within.

12.420 Hrothgar
12.420 Outline
Erevain asks Hrothgar where he got his special Crossbow "Big Shoota"? He notes that an elf probably made it. Hrothgar corrects him by saying that he found "Big Shoota" while saving a Gnome family from Nelanther pirates. Erevain asks to know more and Hrothgar responds perhaps another time.

12.420 Content

Erevain: Where did you get your unique crossbow, "Big Shoota" from?
Hrothgar: I got it while saving a Gnome family from Nelanther pirates.
Erevain: Tell us more, I'd love to hear the tale.
Hrothgar: Perhaps another time. I do not feel much in the mood at the moment.

12.510 Leina
12.510 Outline
12.510 Content

(If Leina's moonblade and melodic chain are both present in the party inventory)

Erevain: How did you acquire those items?
Leina: What items are you referring to?
Erevain: The moonblade and the elven chain. Whom did you steal or kill to retrieve those?
Leina: Where do you get off accusing people of such horrible things? I have done no such thing.
Erevain: Those items are not shared with non-elves. They are created specifically for the Tel-quessir: not half-breeds like you.
Leina: Such vile rudeness Erevain. You are no better than the majority of humans who persecute me.
Erevain: Call me what you wish, but I have no patience for the the theft of elven artifacts.
Leina: Leave me alone! Do not speak to me of this again. It is a wonder how <CHARNAME> tolerates your poison tongue.


12.520 Leina
12.520 Outline
12.520 Content

(If Leina's moonblade and melodic chain are both present in the party inventory)

Erevain: You never did tell me how you got that moonblade and armor.
Leina: I told you not to speak to me of these things again! Why do you torment me so! I have done nothing wrong.
Erevain: If you have done nothing wrong then why can't you say how you got them! You wouldn't want family heirlooms in unlawful hands would you!
Leina: These items were given to me after my mother's death! I...didn't know about it for many months. They are among the few remnants that are left of my mother's life.
Erevain: Yes, it does seem that the moonblade has not rejected you. Else, you would not be able to even lift it. Your ability to wear that armor does seem to suggest a familial fit. Your mother was an elf?
Leina: Yes Erevain.
Erevain: It is still highly irregular for such precious items to transfer to a half-breed. But, your words are likely true.
Leina: Would you stop calling me a half-breed! I am a full-blooded woman with a heart, mind, and soul! I used to have loving parents who endured a lot of hardship and you would do well to remember that.
Erevain: I....have a family as well. I am sorry.
Erevain: Let us be off.



12.610 Melora
12.610 Outline
12.610 Content

Melora: I'm not sure what to think of you Erevain. A corrupt male mage like most of them, but a skilled thief as well.
Erevain: If you weren't so closed-minded, you'd benefit from the Art and aid your own rogue skills.
Melora: I don't need any of that filthy magic to help me. I do more than well enough on my own.
Erevain: Then I am sure you will remain small in more ways than one.
Melora: Watch your tongue elf. I would chuck any undeserving male to the Nine Hells if they deserved it. Don't push yourself further into that category.
Erevain: Oh Erevan Ilesere, hide me from this insane halfling!



12.620 Melora
12.620 Outline
12.620 Content

Melora: You did fairly well in that last battle.
Erevain: Thank you.
Melora: For filthy male mage that is.
Erevain: You surely have a strong grudge against male mages for reasons totally alien!
Melora: It's not my fault that men betray their lovers and use magic to hide their misdeeds.
Erevain: I have done no such thing.
Melora: Sure ya haven't. No one believes liars who charm ladies with their magic and then just as the spell fades away tosses those same ladies away.
Erevain: There is room for a healthy awareness of magic. I am sorry if such things happened to you.
Melora: Sorry doesn't do a lick for me Erevain. What my father did to my mother is long past.
Erevain: If we ever find your father, I will aid you in your revenge.
Melora: Thank you Erevain.

12.710 Taffic
12.710 Outline

Taffic thinks he'd make a great elf

12.710 Content

Taffic: Why did you say earlier that I could not become an elf? It is my destiny to become great!
Erevain: A N-Tel-Quess cannot become a Tel-quessir
Taffic: What in Toril is that supposed to mean.
Erevain: (sigh). A gnome cannot simply become an elf.
Taffic: How closed-minded of you! Such magics are very possible! We must find a mage with the proper skill.
Erevain: Taking the form of an elf does not make you an elf. The elven spirit and soul are alien things to that of other races.
Taffic: Well, perhaps I shall find a suitable elven spirit and soul to complement my form and you will help me.
Erevain: I most certainly will not. To steal those from a living elf or to petition for a new soul and spirit to go to a N-Tel-Quess would be an abomination to Corellon.
Taffic: You're just greedy, wanting all the greatness for yourself. <CHARNAME> will help me and I will become great. You just watch!

12.720 Taffic
12.720 Outline
12.720 Content

Erevain: A demon? Are you unmistakably convinced?
Taffic: Of course. I was clearly meant to become great through evolving into a powerful demon
Erevain: Demons are the tortured souls of horrific mortals transformed into an evil nightmarish form and doomed to serve as pawns of their cruel overlords. Why in the Gray Waste would you want that for yourself?
Taffic: What are you talking about I just want to become a demon, not actually die!
Erevain: Don't you think there might be some problem in trying to become a demon without any of the drawbacks?
Taffic: Such foolishness Erevain. You have no confidence in the Art you yourself practice. You stay a weak elf Erevain; I'm going to become a powerful demon. You just watch.
Erevain: Oh Sehanine! Save me from this madness.



----------------
13. Crossmod NPC Banters
----------------

13.110 Kachiko
13.110 Outline
13.110 Content

Erevain: Kachiko, why is it that you favor the Katana so. Surely, you must agree that the longsword is truly the finest blade.
Kachiko: Katanas are made by the most dedicated weaponsmiths in Kara-Tur. The time required to create them is extraordinary and the crafstmanship of a Katana is unparalleled.
Erevain: (Pulls out a longsword). Look at that Kachiko. Behold this magnificent elven make. Far finer than what could be made elsewhere.
Kachiko: Perhaps we must live with our disagreements unless you were willing to put our blades to the test?
Erevain: No, certainly not. I would not spill the blood of a good woman over a petty dispute.
Kachiko: (nods and smiles). Nor would I likewise with a good man.


13.120 Kachiko
13.120 Outline
13.120 Content

Erevain: Are there any elves in Kara-Tur?
Kachiko: There are extremely few if any at all in Kara-Tur.
Erevain: Are you absolutely positive? It is hard for me to believe that the Tel-quessir would not travel to every reach of Abeir-Toril.
Kachiko: Well, hmm. I have heard of something you might call a "Star Elf". Some legends have been told of tall fey creatures like yourself with star diadems that have come to trade occasionally on the outer west rim of my homeland. I've never seen any evidence of them myself mind you.
Erevain: Fascinating. Perhaps one day I can journey that way with you and we can verify these legends and find my lost cousins
Kachiko: (nods).

13.130 Kachiko
13.130 Outline
13.130 Content

13.210 Sime
13.210 Outline
13.210 Content

Erevain: Sime, why Mielikki out of all the deities you could worship.
Sime: Mielikki was always generous to me, protected the innocent, and served the good of nature.
Erevain: Surely, Corellon Larethian or Rillifane Rallathil does all of that and more no?
Sime: I suppose I do not know. I am not very familiar with the Elven gods.
Erevain: I'm very surprised. Surely you would have come across many an elf to teach you yes?
Sime: Mielikki guides me to protect the forests and the good creatures of the land and not toward any kind of creature in particular.
Erevain: My my. Well, I shall do my best to instruct you about how elves bring about the best in nature.

13.220 Sime
13.220 Outline
13.220 Content

Sime: So Erevain I have listened to your talks on the beauty of elven culture, nature, and so forth many a time now.
Erevain: Yes, and?
Sime: I feel that many of your people have lost their way
Erevain: How so?
Sime: Your elven kindred have built themselves grand cities and try to erect them in harmony with nature nature
Erevain: Yes, of course. That harmony is one of our major accomplishments.
Sime: However, even so many of your people seem to have lost touch with nature itself, spending their time dealing with the foibles of civilization.
Erevain: Foibles? Music, art, poetry, and beautiful craftsmanship of all kinds!
Sime: While beautiful, it takes your people away from the beauty of nature. The only ones among you that still appreciate it fully seem to be the Wild Elves.
Erevain: What? My barely dressed, tattooed, covered in mud cousins? No, when I meet them in my journeys they shall be warmly welcomed but from a distance and not touched.
Sime: You wish to claim a closeness to nature yet you wish not to be close even to your kin.
Erevain: Yes, I think a healthy distance from the dirt and stink of nature is quite appropriate.
Erevain: (moves around uncomfortably). Perhaps we can discuss this later.

13.230 Sime
13.230 Outline
13.230 Content

13.310 Bohdi
13.310 Outline

Bodhi uses sexual innuendo to tempt Erevain. Erevain remains creeped out but slightly intrigued.

13.310 Content

Bohdi: It's been a long time since I've been with an elf
Erevain: Err...I'm not sure what you mean by that.
Bodhi: Elves are so...sensual
Erevain: I have no interest in relations with you.
Bodhi: I implied no such thing. You insult me with such carnal thoughts.
Erevain: I apologize if I misunderstood.

13.320 Bohdi
13.320 Outline
Bodhi flips from the last conversation and admits that she despises elves and all that they represent and how she wants to drain the life out of each and every one of them. She goes on to insult their haughtiness, arrogant sense of superiority


13.320 Content

Bodhi: You know I really despise elves. Their arrogant sense of superiority: thinking that they have the right to judge everyone else. I can't stand such wretched beings.
Erevain: And here I thought that you wanted to kiss me. You'll get no love from me dark creature. I tolerate your presence merely because of <CHARNAME>.
Bodhi: And likewise I tolerate your forlorn existence because of <CHARNAME> and that our goals align for now.


13.410 Xan
13.410 Outline

Erevain reminisces about childhood in Evereska with Xan.

13.410 Content

Erevain: You remember those days cousin? Hillgliding, and treetopping throughout the Shaeradim?
Xan: Yes, I remember. It was burdensome.
Erevain: Burdensome? You're not going to let a few falls sour your memory are you?
Xan: The last fall had me bedridden.
Erevain: For a while, until we convinced the Feywarden to have pity on you. Come on Xan, admit it, you had fun.
Xan: Like all feelings, It did not last.
Erevain: Oh Xan.


13.420 Xan
13.420 Outline

Erevain and Xan discuss their mutual luck in being favored.

13.420 Content

(If Erevain's signature armor is still in party possession and if Xan's moonblade is in party posession.)

Xan: Do you still have that armor cousin?
Erevain: Of course, I would never get abandon Corellon's gift. Do you still have the moonblade?
Xan: I am doomed to retain it. Truly a vain endeavor to remove myself as the sword's chosen.
Erevain: Our family seems to be blessed by the Seldarine. Perhaps we are meant for something of great import?
Xan: Likely the most important ones to die.
Erevain: Come on Xan. These gifts and bestowals are meant to strengthen us to aid the elven people not kill us.
Xan: And yet these gifts paint larger targets on us and ensure that the hordes of enemies descend upon us. Our doom is inevitable.
Erevain: If I am doomed to die defending my people, then I shall fight with all of my being and with my friend and cousin by my side.
Xan: I would willingly die just as vainly with you cousin.

13.510 Irenicus
13.510 Outline
13.510 Content

Erevain: I don't have any respect for a former elf who wishes to destroy an already diminished race. I still highly disagree with <CHARNAME> allowing you to travel with us.
Irenicus: Leave me alone haughty one. What's past is past and your views are well known.
Erevain: Your murderous actions are quite recent; you should know that you aren't going to get such a pass that easily while I'm around. I'm watching you Irenicus, and you should be ready to feel that chill of death for a third time if you try anything.
Irenicus: Oh spare me. Let us move on.

13.520 Irenicus
13.520 Outline
13.520 Content

Erevain: So Irenicus, have any dreams of torturing the innocent lately? Perhaps yearning to mock and kill just a few more younglings?
Irenicus: I will not tolerate such elven haughtiness that I have longed despised.
Erevain: After all the crimes you've committed Irenicus, I think you can take it. And, take it you will you incoherent brute.

----------------
14. CHARNAME Banters
----------------

14.110 CHARNAME 1
14.110 Outline
14.110 Content

// Speaker is Erevain, replies come from CHARNAME


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CHErevain0
SAY ~All of this moving around and traveling. Do you ever get tired of it?~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I love travel. It's fun and exhilarating.~ GOTO CHErevain1
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I like traveling, but my feet do hurt a lot.~ GOTO CHErevain2
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Of course. I hate traveling.~ GOTO CHErevain3
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Why do you ask such stupid questions Erevain? Traveling is a necessary burden.~ GOTO CHErevain4
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CHErevain1
SAY ~It is exhilarating isn't it? To travel Faerûn and see such sights and places is absolutely thrilling!~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I agree. Spending my whole life in Candlekeep hearing stories of faraway places and never being able to see them for myself, left me with a sense of wanderlust. ~ GOTO CHErevain5
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Yes it is. I never imagined the amazing wonders available to see and experience.~ GOTO CHErevain5
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Some of the sights are beautiful; some are terrifying.~ GOTO CHErevain6
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Yes, traveling can be thrilling, but can we please stop talking now?~ GOTO CHErevain4
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CHErevain2
SAY ~Haha, yes. Hiking over hills, valleys, and plains will do that. Still, despite any temporary pains.. ~
IF ~~ THEN GOTO CHErevain5
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CHErevain3
SAY ~How could you hate traveling? There's just so much out there to do and see! Why would you ever leave home if you truly hated traveling?~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Because I couldn't stay cooped up in that boring old Candlekeep any longer. I had an opportunity to leave and I took it in haste. Traveling is much better than being completed bored.~ GOTO CHErevain7
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Because we always get attacked by horrible creatures who want to hurt us.~ GOTO CHErevain6
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Because my feet hurt from walking so much.~ GOTO CHErevain2
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Because I don't know why. Stop asking me stupid questions Erevain.~ GOTO CHErevain4
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CHErevain4
SAY ~Fine...I'll just stop talking.~
IF ~~ THEN EXIT
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CHErevain5
SAY ~Yes indeed. Myself, I've always felt a calling to travel: to adventure. I've been traveling for twenty years and am nowhere near ready to quit now. It's quite an escape and a release.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Twenty years? Isn't that a long time to be away from home. Don't you ever feel like returning? ~ GOTO CHErevain8
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Escape? Why do you need an escape?~ GOTO CHErevain8
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Absolutely. I was dying to get out of Candlekeep as a child and I'm thrilled to see where the road leads us!~ GOTO CHErevain8
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Erevain. You already said previously that you've been traveling for twenty years. Are you feeling ok?~ GOTO CHErevain9
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CHErevain6
SAY ~Aye, there are some scary creatures frightening moments to be had. But those do pass. In its entirely, traveling is such a magnificent escape. Such a release from the past.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Escape? Release? Why do you need these?~ GOTO CHErevain8
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Absolutely. I was dying to get out of Candlekeep as a child and I'm thrilled to see where the road leads us!~ GOTO CHErevain8
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I suppose so. The monsters and bandits that die are unavoidable in these travels.~ GOTO CHErevain8
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Would you stop blathering about.~ GOTO CHErevain4
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CHErevain7
SAY ~Aye, traveling is certainly a welcome respite from boredom. Still, I would not trade away these last twenty years for anything. I just needed this release; this escape.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Twenty years? Isn't that a long time to be away from home. Don't you ever feel like returning? ~ GOTO CHErevain8
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Escape? Why do you need an escape?~ GOTO CHErevain8
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Absolutely. I was dying to get out of Candlekeep as a child. Anywhere else is most welcome!~ GOTO CHErevain8
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Erevain. Are you unwell? You look different when you speak of the past.~ GOTO CHErevain9
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Erevain, please spare me your blabbering.~ GOTO CHErevain4
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CHErevain8
SAY ~I....I am sorry. Let us stop talking for now....~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Erevain. What's the matter? Why can't you talk about it? ~ GOTO CHErevain11
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You start a conversation and you won't even finish it? That's very rude.~ GOTO CHErevain11
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~If that's how you really feel about it. I'm here if you're ready to talk about it later.~ GOTO CHErevain11
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Excellent. Less pointless prattle from you.~ GOTO CHErevain11
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CHErevain9
SAY ~...No. No I am not feeling okay...~
IF ~~ THEN GOTO CHErevain8
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CHErevain11
SAY ~I apologize....I just cannot talk now.~
IF ~~ THEN EXIT
END

//1. Erevain: I certainly don't. All the lands of Faerûn are a treasure to be opened. Don't you think?
//A. Yes, discovering new places and peoples, even if frightening sometimes is an thrilling experience that has no substitute.
//B. Some places maybe. Others are just 1 step removed from the Gray Waste.
//C. Not really. A lot of these places are dangerous and scary.


14.120 CHARNAME 2
14.120 Outline
Erevain expresses that he misses his cousin Xan. Charname is asked if he has any close relatives. Charname can lie or tell the truth depending on his/her point of view

14.120 Content


IF ~!InParty("Xan") !InMyArea("Xan") !InParty("O#Xan") !InMyArea("O#Xan")~ THEN BEGIN CH2Erevain0
SAY ~Do you have any siblings or cousins that you were close to?~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I was close to Imoen, who is as close to a sister can be.~ GOTO CH2Erevain1
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~No. I don't call anyone a sibling or cousin.~ GOTO CH2Erevain1
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Sort of.~ GOTO CH2Erevain1
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Stop talking about stupid personal topics. Do your job and that doesn't involve you talking.~ GOTO CH2Erevain4
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH2Erevain1
SAY ~Well, I have a cousin that I have been close to, but haven't seen in a long time, Xan. ~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Xan? Wow, I know Xan. I met him in the Nashkel mines.~ GOTO CH2Erevain2
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Yes, Xan traveled with me for some time after I met him in Nashkel.~ GOTO CH2Erevain2
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~How long has it been since you've seen him?~ GOTO CH2Erevain3
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't care about your Elven friends Erevain.~ GOTO CH2Erevain4
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH2Erevain2
SAY ~How could you possibly have met Xan already? Why would Xan be in Nashkel so far from Evereska? ~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Um. Yeah....~ GOTO CH2Erevain7
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You would have to ask Xan about that.~ GOTO CH2Erevain15
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Well. I strongly suspect that that have been transported into the past about 100 years.~ GOTO CH2Erevain8
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm sure that it was a different Xan from your cousin.~ GOTO CH2Erevain14
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You know what, perhaps I'm mistaken. I probably haven't met Xan before.~ GOTO CH2Erevain14
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~This conversation is getting annoying. Let's continue on.~ GOTO CH2Erevain4
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH2Erevain3
SAY ~I haven't seen him in twenty years ever since I left Evereska. It's been difficult not to have seen him or any of my family for so long.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~That's terrible Erevain. Why don't you journey back to Evereska?~ GOTO CH2Erevain5
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm sure Xan misses your presence as well.~ GOTO CH2Erevain5
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Why haven't you seen any of your family for so long?~ GOTO CH2Erevain5
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~If you haven't visited them in twenty years, waiting a little longer couldn't hurt much.~ GOTO CH2Erevain6
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Forget about them. If they really cared about you, they'd find you~ GOTO CH2Erevain5
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I have no use for this annoying babbling.~ GOTO CH2Erevain4
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH2Erevain4
SAY ~Fine. I'll just stop talking then. I find no sympathetic ears here.~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH2Erevain5
SAY ~I....apologize. I can speak no more.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~As you wish.~ EXIT
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Erevain. Please, just say why you have such problems talking about this.~ GOTO CH2Erevain6
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~If you're not going to say anything useful, then just cease speaking.~ GOTO CH2Erevain4
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH2Erevain6
SAY ~I apologize; it is simply too painful ~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH2Erevain7
SAY ~Why is there such hesitation in your voice at answering my question? Again, how do you know of Xan? ~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Well. I strongly suspect that I have been transported into the past about 100 years.~ GOTO CH2Erevain8
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I misspoke. I have not met someone named Xan before.~ GOTO CH2Erevain14
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Enough with this second-guessing. Let us move on.~ GOTO CH2Erevain4
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I truly have no idea. I consider myself quite inane right now.~ GOTO CH2Erevain9
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH2Erevain8
SAY ~That's ridiculous. Labelas Enoreth would never allow such a thing to one such as you. Traveling to the past would do great harm to Faerûn.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You're right. I'm just a crazed <RACE> speaking nonsense.~ GOTO CH2Erevain9
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Well. It's true, harmful or not, and now I need to return home to my time.~ GOTO CH2Erevain10
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Hah. That was a good joke. You enjoyed it Erevain?~ GOTO CH2Erevain9
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who is Labelas Enoreth?~ GOTO CH2Erevain13
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH2Erevain9
SAY ~May Deep Sashelas wash you of your nonsense. I can find no sympathetic ears here.~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH2Erevain10
SAY ~If true, this is grave news indeed. I must accompany you and ensure a smooth timeline transition until we can discover a way back to your home. Labelas Enoreth, aid me in in these immense task!~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Very well. Onward.~ EXIT
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I will do as I please, timeline or not. And, you had best mind your place in my party.~ GOTO CH2Erevain11
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You are welcome to try. Let's continue to find a way back to my home.~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH2Erevain11
SAY ~<CHARNAME>, you understand the import of my words. Altering the timeline can cause unforseen consequences and untold ruin upon Faerûn and beyond. You must allow me to counsel you until your return to your own time.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'll do nothing of the sort, and if you try to stop me, you shall suffer my blade.~ GOTO CH2Erevain12
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You are correct Erevian. Come, let us continue on in these strange lands until we can find a way back to my home time. ~ EXIT
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH2Erevain12
SAY ~You are a severe threat to all of Faerûn, <CHARNAME>. By the aid of the Seldarine you shall fall on this day!~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~LeaveParty() Enemy()~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH2Erevain13
SAY ~(Sigh) Labelas Enoreth is the Elven god of the Continuum and Time. He watches over the Continuum and protects it from harmful changes. Now tell me <CHARNAME>, are you truly from the future?~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~No, I'm just a crazed <RACE> speaking nonsense.~ GOTO CH2Erevain9
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Yes, it is true. I must find a way back to my own time.~ GOTO CH2Erevain10
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Hah. That was a good joke. You enjoyed it Erevain?~ GOTO CH2Erevain9
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH2Erevain14
SAY ~Very well. This is a sensitive subject for me. ~
IF ~~ THEN GOTO CH2Erevain3
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH2Erevain15
SAY ~Is this some joke <CHARNAME>? Have you truly met my cousin Xan? If so, how? ~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Well. I strongly suspect that I have been transported into the past about 100 years.~ GOTO CH2Erevain8
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I misspoke. I confused that name with someone else.~ GOTO CH2Erevain14
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I truly have no idea. I consider myself quite inane right now.~ GOTO CH2Erevain9
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm sure that it was a different Xan from your cousin.~ GOTO CH2Erevain14
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~This conversation is beyond bothersome. Let's continue on and do not speak to me more of it.~ GOTO CH2Erevain4
END


14.130 CHARNAME 3
14.130 Outline

Erevain relates to CHARNAME his disdain for Fire.


14.130 Content

Before resting for the night

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH3Erevain0
SAY ~Growing up in Evereska we were always taught to disdain fire and all of its uses. It is a baneful force that should never be used by civilized peoples.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~That's silly. Fire is necessary for cooking, warmth, and light.~ GOTO CH3Erevain1
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't like fire either. It's destructive and harmful.~ GOTO CH3Erevain11
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Why this sudden fascination with fire?~ GOTO CH3Erevain13
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Erevain, I'm not interested in this idle banter.~ GOTO CH3Erevain7
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH3Erevain1
SAY ~For other races perhaps. Elves often use magic to provide all of those items you mentioned. A heatstone can cook and warm food and a simple light orb can provide luminescence.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Perhaps, but such items can be expensive and require mages crafting them. Anyone can light a fire.~ GOTO CH3Erevain2
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~That makes a lot of sense. We should all use those instead of fire.~ GOTO CH3Erevain8
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Interesting. I'm not sure what's better.~ GOTO CH3Erevain8
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I suppose you're volunteering to craft all these items for us?~ GOTO CH3Erevain10
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH3Erevain2
SAY ~And risk burning the forest, the jungle or nature? Such risks are not worth the danger!~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Surely, with magic so prevalent in Elven cities, such fire extinguishing magic should be quite easily available no?~ GOTO CH3Erevain3
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You're absolutely right. If the risk of accidental torching or arson is too great. Fires should be banned by the peoples of Faerûn.~ GOTO CH3Erevain5
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Huge metropolises burn fires every day without these massive fears you promote.~ GOTO CH3Erevain6
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm not really interested in discussing elven propaganda.~ GOTO CH3Erevain7
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH3Erevain3
SAY ~No, they are not. It is quite easy to create a magical flame and more difficult to put it out. Elven cities should proudly forbid fires. This prevents the need for as many countermeasures to put them out.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~That really sounds like elven cities are very vulnerable to fire. The buildings are made purely from wood right? This sounds most dangerous indeed.~ GOTO CH3Erevain4
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~That makes sense. Prevention works a lot better than a cure.~ GOTO CH3Erevain5
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~This sounds like some really strange anti-fire elven propaganda. Do your elven gods really approve of that?~ GOTO CH3Erevain6
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH3Erevain4
SAY ~(Grr) Elven cities are quite safe! If you get to visit one someday you will plainly see that. Let us continue on; I grow tired of explaining the Elven ways.~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH3Erevain5
SAY ~Absolutely <CHARNAME>. It is best to remove such hazards completely. The other races across Faerûn would be best by following the elven example. Let us be off.~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH3Erevain6
SAY ~Your words are most offensive <CHARNAME>. You would do well to live in the deep forest and see if you are so unconcerned about your safety. One spark can light your large cities as well. And may Deep Sashelas have mercy on your ignorant brethren's lot on that day when that happens. Let us be off.~ EXIT
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH3Erevain7
SAY ~Then stay ignorant, friend. Let us be off.~ EXIT
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH3Erevain8
SAY ~Should we ever visit my beloved Evereska; I will share these magics with you. Perhaps you too shall share them with others and in such ways all of Faerûn may be made safer. You will readily glimpse the power of elven magic over mundane trinkets~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I would love to visit that land with you Erevain.~ GOTO CH3Erevain9
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Evereska might be an interesting place to visit if the opportunity to present itself.~ GOTO CH3Erevain9
IF ~I have no interest in visiting an entire region of uptight haughty elves.~ THEN REPLY ~~ GOTO CH3Erevain7
IF ~I still think regular fire is better..~ THEN REPLY ~~ GOTO CH3Erevain7
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH3Erevain9
SAY ~Yes. It is a beautiful place where all elves are greeted warmly.....(sigh). Let us continue on <CHARNAME>. It is unlikely we would ever go there.~ Exit
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH3Erevain10
SAY ~Haha. I do not yet possess the craftsmanship and magical formulae to create such magical apparatus. However,...~ GOTO CH3Erevain8
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH3Erevain11
SAY ~You are quite wise <CHARNAME>. ~ GOTO CH3Erevain12
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH3Erevain12
SAY ~Evereskan elves have developed some magical items to replace the use of fire. A heatstone can cook and warm food and a simple light orb can provide luminescence. ~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Perhaps, but such items can be expensive and require mages crafting them. Anyone can light a fire.~ GOTO CH3Erevain2
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~That makes a lot of sense. We should all use those instead of fire.~ GOTO CH3Erevain8
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I suppose you're volunteering to craft all these items for us?~ GOTO CH3Erevain10
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH3Erevain13
SAY ~Because I see such prominent usage of it in these foreign lands. Such dependence on such a destructive force. This is a worrisome trend.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~That's silly. Fire is necessary for cooking, warmth, and light.~ GOTO CH3Erevain1
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't like fire either. It's destructive and harmful.~ GOTO CH3Erevain11
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I believe you Erevain have benefited from these fires at night for warmth and light~ GOTO CH3Erevain14
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Erevain, I'm not interested in this idle banter.~ GOTO CH3Erevain7
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH3Erevain14
SAY ~This is true <CHARNAME>, but it is not the ideal. There is a better way.~ GOTO CH3Erevain12
END

14.140 CHARNAME 4
14.140 Outline

Erevain mentions his history as a member of the Swords of Evereska, Greycloaks, and Vale Guard.

14.140 Content


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH4Erevain10
SAY ~I had a hard time maturing in Evereska. I could never be satisfied. Rather than devoting myself to one discipline, I devoted myself to three; I also couldn't merely join one organization; I joined three. The Swords of Evereska, the Greycloaks, and the Vale Guard~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who are the Swords of Evereska?~ GOTO CH4Erevain20
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who are the Vale Guard?~ GOTO CH4Erevain40
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who are the Greycloaks?~ GOTO CH4Erevain60
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~How did you end up joining all three organizations?~ GOTO CH4Erevain80
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Erevain, can we talk about this later?~ GOTO CH4Erevain100

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH4Erevain20
SAY ~The Swords of Evereska are an order of knights, paladins, and wizards. They defend the Evereskan hills along with the Vale Guard on occasion while sending out parties in the interests of Evereska and the greater good of Faerûn. Sometimes they aid the Greycloaks and their collectors in their quests.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~How did you end up joining the Swords of Evereska?~ GOTO CH4Erevain30
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who are the Vale Guard?~ GOTO CH4Erevain40
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who are the Greycloaks?~ GOTO CH4Erevain60
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~How did you end up joining all three organizations?~ GOTO CH4Erevain80
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Erevain, can we talk about this later?~ GOTO CH4Erevain100
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH4Erevain30
SAY ~My father LLamien served with the Swords of Evereska during much of his adulthood. I joined out of a similar sense of duty and of the wonderment of these Elven Knights. Tales of subduing trolls, giants, and dragons that threatened the forest were boasted to us when we were young. I too hoped to have the opportunity to achieve such quests and grandeur. As such, my father sponsored me and with his help, I passed the basic tests of elven knighthood and wizardry with magnificent success.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who are the Vale Guard?~ GOTO CH4Erevain40
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who are the Greycloaks?~ GOTO CH4Erevain60
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~How did you end up joining all three organizations?~ GOTO CH4Erevain80
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Erevain, can we talk about this later?~ GOTO CH4Erevain100
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH4Erevain40
SAY ~The Vale Guard are the main military forces of Evereska. They patrol Evereska's surrounding lands and skies as well as guard the 12 Hills and the Hidden Path. These are the most elite elven military swordsmen and archers there are. ~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~How did you end up joining the Vale Guard?~ GOTO CH4Erevain50
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who are the Swords of Evereska?~ GOTO CH4Erevain20
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who are the Greycloaks~ GO?TO CH4Erevain60
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~How did you end up joining all three organizations?~ GOTO CH4Erevain80
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Erevain, can we talk about this later?~ GOTO CH4Erevain100
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH4Erevain50
SAY ~Most Evereskan elves conscript into the Vale Guard at some point following their passage to adulthood for some period of time. I was no different: joining them shortly after my adulthood ceremony and given my new suit of armor, Lord Duirsair himself sought to incorporate me into one of the units. Let us just remark that constantly patrolling every tree, shrub, hill, and tomb despite the occasional skirmish is most tiresome to both the feet and the mind.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who are the Swords of Evereska?~ GOTO CH4Erevain20
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who are the Greycloaks?~ GOTO CH4Erevain60
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~How did you end up joining all three organizations?~ GOTO CH4Erevain80
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Erevain, can we talk about this later?~ GOTO CH4Erevain100
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH4Erevain60
SAY ~The Greycloaks are the detectives and law enforcement of Evereska. Whenever there's a problem that can't be solved with mere brawn or threats, you can be sure a Greycloak is investigating.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~How did you end up joining the Greycloaks?~ GOTO CH4Erevain70
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who are the Swords of Evereska?~ GOTO CH4Erevain20
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who are the Vale Guard?~ GOTO CH4Erevain40
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~How did you end up joining all three organizations?~ GOTO CH4Erevain80
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Erevain, can we talk about this later?~ GOTO CH4Erevain100
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH4Erevain70
SAY ~I was always good at sneaking around unwelcome locales. I ended discovering some discrepancies from a gnomish visitor to Evereska. I was both chastised for invasion without warrant and indoctrinated into the Greycloaks as an Infiltrator.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who are the Swords of Evereska?~ GOTO CH4Erevain20
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who are the Vale Guard?~ GOTO CH4Erevain40
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~How did you end up joining all three organizations?~ GOTO CH4Erevain80
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Erevain, can we talk about this later?~ GOTO CH4Erevain100
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH4Erevain80
SAY ~In short, upon adulthood I was almost immediately recruited into the Vale Guard. During rotations, I found an opportunity to join the Swords of Evereska in a Quest to retrieve one of the Shattering Swords of Coronal Ynloeth. While on that quest, we learned of some orc movements approaching the valley and our group split. I ended up joining the Greycloaks as an Infiltrator to track down and spy on the enemy.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~What did you find?~ GOTO CH4Erevain90
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~What happened next?~ GOTO CH4Erevain90
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Were you able to return to the Vale Guard or the Swords of Evereska?~ GOTO CH4Erevain90
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~That sounds very boring.~ GOTO CH4Erevain100
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH4Erevain90
SAY ~I'm sorry friend. This is just too painful. Perhaps we can speak about it some more later.~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH4Erevain100
SAY ~I suppose I am just some incessant gibberling with nothing useful to say. Fine, you shall not hear of me.~ EXIT
END

14.150 CHARNAME 5
14.150 Outline

Erevain speaks of his mentor Yalatheniel and the tragic that struck

14.150 Content


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH5Erevain10
SAY ~Why are you looking at me that way <CHARNAME>?~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You have consistently had trouble speaking of your past.~ GOTO CH5Erevain70
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You are always jabbering on about a topic before abruptly ending the conversation. Why?~ GOTO CH5Erevain70
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm not looking at anything besides a stupid elf.~ GOTO CH5Erevain40
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I wasn't looking at you Erevain.~ GOTO CH5Erevain20
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH5Erevain20
SAY ~That's funny because I could have sworn that you've been looking at my direction recently for a long time.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You seem to be troubled by your past.~ GOTO CH5Erevain70
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You seem to be wanting to say something and have been for some time.~ GOTO CH5Erevain70
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm merely dreading the moment you decide to open your mouth again.~ GOTO CH5Erevain40
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I assure you that I have not been looking at your way in any manner.~ GOTO CH5Erevain30
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH5Erevain30
SAY ~Very well. Let us be off.~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH5Erevain40
SAY ~I joined your party <CHARNAME> under the pretense of being treated respectfully. If you will not treat me so, then I will leave post haste.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I apologize Erevain. It is difficult because you rarely finish speaking about your past.~ GOTO CH5Erevain70
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I apologize Erevain. I do not wish to be disrespectful.~ GOTO CH5Erevain60
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Then by all means leave Erevain. I grow tired of your irrelevant overbearing elven diatribes.~ GOTO CH5Erevain50
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH5Erevain50
SAY ~Then I will free you of your burden. Good Riddance.~ LeaveParty() EscapeArea()~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH5Erevain60
SAY ~Very well. Just be mindful of your words. They can be even as daggers to others. Let us be off.~ EXIT
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH5Erevain70
SAY ~Very well. (sigh). I shall tell you a story. In Evereska after joining the Greycloaks we determined that an Orc invasion was imminent. We had to quickly alert the Vale Guard, summon back the Swords of Evereska, and scramble the Winged Plumed Kingfishes. My mentor Yalatheniel ordered a group of Vale Guards and myself to join him in an anticipatory strike before the invading orcs arrived. We had little time to prepare. I snuck off ahead to scout the orc position when I was ambushed by a group of them. I tried my best, but was knocked out by one of their poisons and left for dead. I was able to awaken some time later to discover the horror at my eyes. My Vale Guard kindred were slaughtered as was my beloved mentor, the elf who helped perfect my combat, magical, and infiltration expertise. I had failed to stop or slow down those vile orcs and my dear friends were slain; that same orc party marched their way toward Evereska can began their full assault If I simply could have endured that skirmish, all would have been different; the enemy position and their numbers could have been reported back. Instead, Evereska was left blind and many elves needlessly died. I could not go back to my home after that. I could not look my fellow elves in the eye and feel their disdain. I left my only home and have not been back in twenty years.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~That wasn't your fault Erevain. You tried your best to stop them.~ GOTO CH5Erevain80
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You weren't the only elf trying to repel those orcs. Why did no one else anticipate these large movements?~ GOTO CH5Erevain80
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~No wonder you have such trouble speaking of your past. You really screwed up and did a disservice to your people.~ GOTO CH5Erevain120
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~What are the Winged Plumbed Kingfishes?~ GOTO CH5Erevain140
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Erevain, please stop with these diatribes. I have not idea of anything you say.~ GOTO CH5Erevain130
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH5Erevain80
SAY ~Trying isn't good enough <CHARNAME>. When it really mattered, I failed; I wasn't strong enough and my comrades paid with their lives. What others did or did not do is irrelevant; I was as responsible for the as I was for myself. I cannot return to my homeland nor can I bear the shame of that catastrophe.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~No one is perfect Erevain. One can only be judged by his or her choices. Your choices were noble.~ GOTO CH5Erevain90
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't see why your family and people would reject you; you tried your best.~ GOTO CH5Erevain90
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~If your comrades couldn't defend themselves, then that's their problem not yours. You are not responsible for the competency of your comrades.~ GOTO CH5Erevain90
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH5Erevain90
SAY ~Evereska is one of the last elven fortresses on the main continent of Faerûn. We are judged not only by our actions, but on their effect on the elven civilization itself. My kind's numbers are dwindling. To have any part in their further decrease is unforgivable. I was as responsible for the lives of those Vale Guards and Yalatheniel as I am my own. If I did not leave of my own accord, my people and family would have assuredly rejected me. Now I must content myself to drift from location to location, stranger to stranger, and try to extract some meaning for my continued existence.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Aiding me and others, and making the world a better place is a worthy existence.~ GOTO CH5Erevain100
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Aiding me while exploring unknown lands and gaining knowledge is a worthy existence. ~ GOTO CH5Erevain100
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Aiding me while gaining power and funds to vanquish your enemies is a worthy existence. ~ GOTO CH5Erevain100
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~This is above my head. I'm not sure how to respond.~ GOTO CH5Erevain110
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH5Erevain100
SAY ~Perhaps you are right <CHARNAME>. I must find some reason to linger on. (sigh).~ EXIT
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH5Erevain110
SAY ~It matters not. I simply have little purpose to my life anymore (sigh).~ EXIT
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH5Erevain120
SAY ~I inflicted a great shame on my people that I cannot recover from. There is little purpose to my existence anymore.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Aiding me and others, and making the world a better place is a worthy existence.~ GOTO CH5Erevain100
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Aiding me while exploring unknown lands and gaining knowledge is a worthy existence. ~ GOTO CH5Erevain100
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Aiding me while gaining power and funds to vanquish your enemies is a worthy existence. ~ GOTO CH5Erevain100
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~This is above my head. I'm not sure how to respond.~ GOTO CH5Erevain110
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH5Erevain130
SAY ~You are correct; I apologize. These aches of the soul should be burdened by one alone (sigh).~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH5Erevain140
SAY ~(sigh) The Winged Plumbed Kingfishes are an elite elven military aerial order divided between Evermeet and Evereska. These armored elves ride giant eagles and asperii.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~That wasn't your fault Erevain. You tried your best to stop those orcs.~ GOTO CH5Erevain80
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You weren't the only elf trying to repel those orcs. Why did no one else anticipate these large movements?~ GOTO CH5Erevain80
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~No wonder you have such trouble speaking of your past. You really screwed up and did a disservice to your people.~ GOTO CH5Erevain120
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~What are asperii?~ GOTO CH5Erevain150
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~What were we talking about again? I forgot.~ GOTO CH5Erevain110

END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH5Erevain150
SAY ~(sigh) Asperii are a race of creatures with the innate magical ability to fly. They look similar to human horses, but are far more intelligent and powerful.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~That wasn't your fault Erevain. You tried your best to stop those orcs.~ GOTO CH5Erevain80
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You weren't the only elf trying to repel those orcs. Why did no one else anticipate these large movements?~ GOTO CH5Erevain80
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~No wonder you have such trouble speaking of your past. You really screwed up and did a disservice to your people.~ GOTO CH5Erevain120
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~What were we talking about again? I forgot.~ GOTO CH5Erevain110
END


14.160 CHARNAME 6 (Romance 1)
14.160 Outline

This is the first lovetalk for the Erevain Romance. The basic plan is 5 lovetalks before romance conflicts (Anomen and any other mod NPCs). After this there is interest (variable 1). After this there 8 post conflict pre-commitment talks. Then there is one conversation to finalize commitment (variable 2). Post commitment there are 5 lovetalks in BG2 and 8 lovetalks in ToB. There will be 5 BG2 Romance PID. and 3 ToB Romance PID.

14.160 Content

IF ~Global("BIErevainRomanceActive","GLOBAL",1) Global("BIErevainTalk","GLOBAL",60)~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain110
SAY ~What do you think about love~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Love is wonderful.~ GOTO CH6Erevain124
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Love is good.~ GOTO CH6Erevain124
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Love is awful.~ GOTO CH6Erevain122
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't think much about it.~ GOTO CH6Erevain121
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I am not sure.~ GOTO CH6Erevain121
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH6Erevain130
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't feel like talking about this now.~ GOTO CH6Erevain120
END

IF ~~ CH6Erevain120 THEN
SAY ~Very well then. ~
IF ~~ DO ~IncrementGlobal("BIErevainTalk","GLOBAL",10) RealSetGlobalTimer("BIErevainTimer","GLOBAL",3600)~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain121
SAY ~Well, let me tell you how I feel about it.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH6Erevain130
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain122
SAY ~Why would you say such a thing?~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Because love is awful.~ GOTO CH6Erevain123
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Because love is stupid Erevain and so are you.~ GOTO CH6Erevain132
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I am not really interested in any kind of love Erevain.~ GOTO CH6Erevain220
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm not interested in you Erevain.~ GOTO CH6Erevain220
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Love just breaks your heart.~ GOTO CH6Erevain123
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Love hurts more than helps.~ GOTO CH6Erevain123
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Love is a waste of time.~ GOTO CH6Erevain123
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm sorry, I am interested in the kind of love that lasts.~ GOTO CH6Erevain131
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm sorry, love is important.~ GOTO CH6Erevain131
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I am not for anything that will tie me down. I have a long life to live.~ GOTO CH6Erevain146
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm not interested in you Erevain.~ GOTO CH6Erevain230
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH6Erevain143
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't feel like talking about this now.~ GOTO CH6Erevain143
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain123
SAY ~Then I suppose we fundamentally disagree.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~SetGlobal("BIErevainRomanceActive","GLOBAL",3) IncrementGlobal("BIErevainTalk","GLOBAL",10) RealSetGlobalTimer("BIErevainTimer","GLOBAL",3600)~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain124
SAY ~I agree with you (Erevain smiles).~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH6Erevain130
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain130
SAY ~For elves, love can be a short or long dalliance sometimes lasting even months or centuries. Another kind of love can last a lifetime and beyond. ~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~What are implying Erevain?~ GOTO CH6Erevain200
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~That is surely the same for many races and cultures.~ GOTO CH6Erevain132
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I am for all kinds of love.~ GOTO CH6Erevain146
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I am not really interested in any kind of love.~ GOTO CH6Erevain220
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm not interested in you Erevain.~ GOTO CH6Erevain220
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I am interested in the kind of love that lasts.~ GOTO CH6Erevain131
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I am not for anything that will tie me down. I have a long life to live.~ GOTO CH6Erevain146
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~What kind of stupd fluffy elf love foolishness is this? Do not talk to me about this again.~ GOTO CH6Erevain145
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Yes, go on.~ GOTO CH6Erevain140
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH6Erevain140
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't feel like talking about this now.~ GOTO CH6Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain131
SAY ~As am I. (Erevain smiles).~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH6Erevain150
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain132
SAY ~It may be for more civilized races. I am most familiar with elves.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH6Erevain140
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain140
SAY ~Lasting Fidelity is not always common amongst elves. Many move from relationship to relationship and never tire of new trysts. Myself, I have always desired to have a companion throughout life. A soul that will journey with me in this life and beyond. Someone to love and cherish forever. I do not seek to waste time on a beauty that will die.~
IF ~I would value such a companion as well.~ GOTO CH6Erevain148
IF ~Neither do I. I want beauty to last forever~ GOTO CH6Erevain148
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Beauty cannot and does not last. One can only enjoy beauty while it does last.~ GOTO CH6Erevain250
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Life is too short to try to find a perfect love.~ GOTO CH6Erevain250
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Fidelity is a waste of time. Why taste one flavor when you can taste many?.~ GOTO CH6Erevain146
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I think I prefer the common elven culture to yours Erevain.~ GOTO CH6Erevain147
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~That's just stupid Erevain.~ GOTO CH6Erevain142
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm not interested in you Erevain.~ GOTO CH6Erevain220
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm not sure what I think about this.~ GOTO CH6Erevain141
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Yes, go on.~ GOTO CH6Erevain150
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH6Erevain150
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't feel like talking about this now.~ GOTO CH6Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain141
SAY ~There's no need to think too much all of this just yet.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH6Erevain150
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain142
SAY ~That's rather rude. Why would you say such a thing?~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Fidelity is a waste of time. Why taste one flavor when you can taste many?.~ GOTO CH6Erevain146
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Like all things in the multiverse, love cannot last.~ GOTO CH6Erevain250
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Because what you said was stupid Erevain..~ GOTO CH6Erevain145
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm not interested in you Erevain.~ GOTO CH6Erevain220
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm sorry. I would treasure a loyal companion sometime in the future.~ GOTO CH6Erevain190
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm sorry. I do not know why I said that. ~ GOTO CH6Erevain144
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm not sure what I think about this.~ GOTO CH6Erevain143
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH6Erevain143
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't feel like talking about this now.~ GOTO CH6Erevain143
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain143
SAY ~Well, your previous words have already given how you feel away. I am dissapointed. ~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~SetGlobal("BIErevainRomanceActive","GLOBAL",3) IncrementGlobal("BIErevainTalk","GLOBAL",10) RealSetGlobalTimer("BIErevainTimer","GLOBAL",3600)~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain144
SAY ~Apology accepted.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH6Erevain160
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain145
SAY ~You are a most rude individual. I am dissapointed. ~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~SetGlobal("BIErevainRomanceActive","GLOBAL",3) IncrementGlobal("BIErevainTalk","GLOBAL",10) RealSetGlobalTimer("BIErevainTimer","GLOBAL",3600)~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain146
SAY ~Fidelity may yet be the sweetest and most lasting fruit of all (Erevain smiles).~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH6Erevain160
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain147
SAY ~I never said such practices were the most common, just that many elves lived that way. I do not believe we are compatible.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~SetGlobal("BIErevainRomanceActive","GLOBAL",3) IncrementGlobal("BIErevainTalk","GLOBAL",10) RealSetGlobalTimer("BIErevainTimer","GLOBAL",3600)~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain148
SAY ~I am glad to hear that (Erevain smiles).~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH6Erevain150
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain150
SAY ~I hope that I can find such a loyal steadfast loving companion one day.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~As would I.~ GOTO CH6Erevain190
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I too would want such a thing.~ GOTO CH6Erevain190
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~That sounds nice, but I do not know if it could last.~ GOTO CH6Erevain250
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~What are you implying Erevain?~ GOTO CH6Erevain200
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~That sounds very stuffy and limiting~ GOTO CH6Erevain240
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I do not want such a thing.~ GOTO CH6Erevain180
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm not interested in you Erevain.~ GOTO CH6Erevain220
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm no sure what I think about this.~ GOTO CH6Erevain170
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Yes, go on.~ GOTO CH6Erevain160
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH6Erevain160
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't feel like talking about this now.~ GOTO CH6Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain160
SAY ~I have no more words for now. Remember what I have said...and meant.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~IncrementGlobal("BIErevainTalk","GLOBAL",10) RealSetGlobalTimer("BIErevainTimer","GLOBAL",3600)~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain170
SAY ~There's no need to think too much on it just yet.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH6Erevain160
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain180
SAY ~Really? What do you mean?~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm not interested in you Erevain. Sorry.~ GOTO CH6Erevain220
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm not interested in relationships of any kind.~ GOTO CH6Erevain220
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't think I'm ready for a relationship.~ GOTO CH6Erevain220
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't know what to think about this.~ GOTO CH6Erevain170
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I am not sure what you are implying.~ GOTO CH6Erevain200
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm sorry. I would treasure a loyal companion sometime in the future.~ GOTO CH6Erevain190
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't know what I mean.~ GOTO CH6Erevain170
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH6Erevain160
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't feel like talking about this now.~ GOTO CH6Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain190
SAY ~I am glad to hear that (Erevain smiles).~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH6Erevain160
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain200
SAY ~You heard what I said (Erevain smiles).~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH6Erevain160
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain220
SAY ~There's no need to be hasty or rush to statements. I'm just making pleasant conversation (Erevain smiles).~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm serious Erevain. I don't want any relationships with anyone ever.~ GOTO CH6Erevain230
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm serious Erevain. I don't think I'll ever be ready for a relationship.~ GOTO CH6Erevain230
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm serious Erevain. I'm not interested in you. Sorry.~ GOTO CH6Erevain230
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm serious Erevain. I'm not interested in love.~ GOTO CH6Erevain230
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm not sure what to say.~ GOTO CH6Erevain160
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH6Erevain160
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain230
SAY ~I'm sorry to hear that. As you wish.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~SetGlobal("BIErevainRomanceActive","GLOBAL",3) IncrementGlobal("BIErevainTalk","GLOBAL",10) RealSetGlobalTimer("BIErevainTimer","GLOBAL",3600)~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain240
SAY ~Really? What do you mean?~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Companions and relationships tie you down. You can't live a free life with them.~ GOTO CH6Erevain220
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't think I'm ready for a relationship.~ GOTO CH6Erevain220
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm not interested in you Erevain.~ GOTO CH6Erevain220
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't know what to think about this.~ GOTO CH6Erevain170
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I am not sure what you are implying.~ GOTO CH6Erevain200
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm sorry. I would treasure a loyal companion sometime in the future.~ GOTO CH6Erevain190
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't know what I mean.~ GOTO CH6Erevain170
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH6Erevain160
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't feel like talking about this now.~ GOTO CH6Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH6Erevain250
SAY ~That which is eternal may never die. (Erevain smles).~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH6Erevain160
END

14.170 CHARNAME 7 (Romance 2)
14.170 Outline

Erevain offers flowers to CHARNAME after rest for a PID after this dialogue.

Erevain asks Charname if s/he has family.

14.170 Content

IF ~Global("BIErevainTalk","GLOBAL",70)~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain110
SAY ~Do you have a family? Blood kin that you care about?~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I was close to my foster father Gorion. But he was not my blood kin.~ GOTO CH7Erevain117
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I am close to my foster father Gorion. But he is not my blood kin.~ GOTO CH7Erevain117
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I was close to Imoen, but she was not my blood kin.~ GOTO CH7Erevain117
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I am close to Imoen.~ GOTO CH7Erevain116
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Sarevok was blood kin but I would not call him "family". He tried to have me assassinated.~ GOTO CH7Erevain115
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't have a family or blood kin.~ GOTO CH7Erevain114
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~The whole concept of family and blood kin is stupid.~ GOTO CH7Erevain112
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Please stop talking to me Erevain.~ GOTO CH7Erevain111
IF ~Global("BIErevainRomanceActive","GLOBAL",1)~ THEN REPLY ~I'm not interested in you Erevain.~ GOTO CH7Erevain113
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH7Erevain120
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't feel like talking about this now.~ GOTO CH6Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain111
SAY ~As you wish.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~IncrementGlobal("BIErevainTalk","GLOBAL",10000) RealSetGlobalTimer("BIErevainTimer","GLOBAL",3600)~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain112
SAY ~Then I suppose we haven't much to talk about on this issue.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~SetGlobal("BIErevainRomanceActive","GLOBAL",3) IncrementGlobal("BIErevainTalk","GLOBAL",10) RealSetGlobalTimer("BIErevainTimer","GLOBAL",3600)~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain113
SAY ~I am disappointed. As you wish.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~SetGlobal("BIErevainRomanceActive","GLOBAL",3) IncrementGlobal("BIErevainTalk","GLOBAL",10) RealSetGlobalTimer("BIErevainTimer","GLOBAL",3600)~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain114
SAY ~Really? I find that difficult to fathom.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH7Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain115
SAY ~That is truly horrible. I cannot fathom having family like that.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH7Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain116
SAY ~I am glad for you. (Erevain smiles).~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH7Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain117
SAY ~Some friendships are thicker than blood. (Erevain smiles).~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH7Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain120
SAY ~In Evereska I had a family. My brothers Erlathan and Ermmyth, my father LLamien and mother Ossianya and of course my relatives including my gloomy cousin Xan. It was a wonderful time while it lasted. A good family can be such a blessing. I'm sorry that you didn't have the best situation.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Gorion was a blessing. He raised and took care of me well. My childhood was decent given the circumstances.~ GOTO CH7Erevain125
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Gorion is a blessing. He raised and took care of me well. My childhood was decent given the circumstances.~ GOTO CH7Erevain125
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Imoen was wonderful. A treasured childhood friend. My early life was decent given the circumstances.~ GOTO CH7Erevain125
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Imoen is wonderful. A treasured childhood and adult friend. My early life was decent given the circumstances.~ GOTO CH7Erevain125
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Gorion was an irksome fool who kept me back from my true potential. I am glad to be rid of him.~ GOTO CH7Erevain124
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Imoen was a pesky tattletale brat who would never leave me alone and would always get me into trouble. I am glad to be rid of her.~ GOTO CH7Erevain124
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~My situation was decent for what it was.~ GOTO CH7Erevain123
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I have no desire to comment on my former situation.~ GOTO CH7Erevain122
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~My situation was horrible.~ GOTO CH7Erevain121
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH7Erevain130
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't feel like talking about this now.~ GOTO CH6Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain121
SAY ~I am truly sorry for that.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH7Erevain130
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain122
SAY ~I can understand that.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH7Erevain130
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain123
SAY ~That is somewhat encouraging.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH7Erevain130
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain124
SAY ~I am sorry to hear that.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH7Erevain130
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain125
SAY ~I am glad to hear that.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH7Erevain130
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain130
SAY ~I'm ashamed of what happened. I have been gone so long. I truly wonder if I will ever be able to return home. Will I ever be accepted again?~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm sure your family would welcome you back.~ GOTO CH7Erevain135
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Time heals wounds. ~ GOTO CH7Erevain134
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I hope that they would accept you again.~ GOTO CH7Erevain133
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't think that they would take you back.~ GOTO CH7Erevain132
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~There's no way that they would welcome you again.~ GOTO CH7Erevain132
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't know if you would be accepted or not.~ GOTO CH7Erevain131
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Yes, go on.~ GOTO CH7Erevain140
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH7Erevain140
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't feel like talking about this now.~ GOTO CH6Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain131
SAY ~I don't know either, but I hope I would be.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH7Erevain140
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain132
SAY ~I can't let myself fully believe that. I just cannot.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH7Erevain140
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain133
SAY ~I hope so as well.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH7Erevain140
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain134
SAY ~It can indeed. I hope that this wound can heal.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH7Erevain140
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain135
SAY ~Thank you. I hope that they do.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH7Erevain140
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain140
SAY ~I have always wanted to make my family and my people proud of me. I still want that. I still want them to be proud of me. I have to do something ... something great that will earn their admiration and respect; something to earn it back again.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You shouldn't need to do anything to prove yourself to your family.~ GOTO CH7Erevain144
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Your have done plenty to make your family proud.~ GOTO CH7Erevain145
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You don't need to make your family proud~ GOTO CH7Erevain144
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You're right, you must do something to make your family proud.~ GOTO CH7Erevain142
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Are you sure that you have to do something to earn their respect?~ GOTO CH7Erevain143
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~There's nothing that you can do that would ever be good enough for them.~ GOTO CH7Erevain141
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Yes, go on.~ GOTO CH7Erevain160
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH7Erevain160
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't feel like talking about this now.~ GOTO CH6Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain141
SAY ~You might be right, but I don't know that for sure.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH7Erevain160
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain142
SAY ~I will have to think of something.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH7Erevain160
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain143
SAY ~Absolutely. I have disgraced myself and must work to return to their graces.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH7Erevain160
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain144
SAY ~But, I must. Family is very important to me.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH7Erevain160
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain145
SAY ~Thank you. I hope that they will feel that way.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH7Erevain160
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain160
SAY ~Whatever happens. One day I will return home and good or bad I will have to face my family~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~IncrementGlobal("BIErevainTalk","GLOBAL",10) RealSetGlobalTimer("BIErevainTimer","GLOBAL",3600)~ EXIT
IF ~Global("BIErevainRomanceActive","GLOBAL",1)~ THEN DO ~~ GOTOCH6Erevain170
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain170
SAY ~It is my hope that you would consider coming with me. I would enjoy your company and assistance.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I would love to come with you.~ GOTO CH7Erevain200
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I might come with you.~ GOTO CH7Erevain200
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I would wish you well, but would not come with you.~ GOTO CH7Erevain190
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I would never come with you.~ GOTO CH7Erevain190
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH7Erevain180
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't feel like talking about this now.~ GOTO CH6Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain180
SAY ~I would like to remember you just like this.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH7Erevain190
SAY ~I don't believe you. (Erevain smiles)~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ EXIT
END


14.180 CHARNAME 8 (Romance 3)
14.180 Outline

Erevain offers flowers to CHARNAME in a PID before this talk.

PID: What is that that you are hiding?
PID response: I got something for you while you were asleep. I hope that you appreciate them.

This talk is about goals. What happens when the crisis is over.

14.180 Content

IF ~Global("BIErevainTalk","GLOBAL",80)~ THEN BEGIN CH8Erevain110
SAY ~Do you have any goals? Do you have any de~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH7Erevain120
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't feel like talking about this now.~ GOTO CH6Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH8Erevain111
SAY ~~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO CH8Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH8Erevain112
SAY ~~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH8Erevain
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH8Erevain113
SAY ~Then I suppose we fundamentally disagree.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~SetGlobal("BIErevainRomanceActive","GLOBAL",3) IncrementGlobal("BIErevainTalk","GLOBAL",10) RealSetGlobalTimer("BIErevainTimer","GLOBAL",3600)~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH8Erevain120
SAY ~~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Yes, go on.~ GOTO CH7Erevain130
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH8Erevain130
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't feel like talking about this now.~ GOTO CH6Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH8Erevain130
SAY ~~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Yes, go on.~ GOTO CH8Erevain140
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH8Erevain140
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't feel like talking about this now.~ GOTO CH6Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH8Erevain140
SAY ~~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Yes, go on.~ GOTO CH7Erevain150
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH8Erevain150
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't feel like talking about this now.~ GOTO CH8Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH8Erevain150
SAY ~~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Yes, go on.~ GOTO CH7Erevain180
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH8Erevain160
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't feel like talking about this now.~ GOTO CH8Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH8Erevain160
SAY ~~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~IncrementGlobal("BIErevainTalk","GLOBAL",10) RealSetGlobalTimer("BIErevainTimer","GLOBAL",3600)~ EXIT
IF ~Global("BIErevainRomanceActive","GLOBAL",1)~ THEN DO ~~ GOTOCH8Erevain170
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH8Erevain170
SAY ~~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Yes, go on.~ GOTO CH8Erevain180
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH8Erevain180
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't feel like talking about this now.~ GOTO CH6Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH8Erevain180
SAY ~~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Yes, go on.~ GOTO CH8Erevain190
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO CH8Erevain190
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't feel like talking about this now.~ GOTO CH6Erevain120
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN CH8Erevain190
SAY ~~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ EXIT
END


14.190 CHARNAME 9 (Romance 4)
14.190 Outline
14.190 Content


14.200 CHARNAME 10 (Romance 5)
14.200 Outline
14.200 Content


14.210 CHARNAME 11 (Romance Conflict)
14.210 Outline
14.210 Content


14.220 CHARNAME 12 (Romance 6)
14.220 Outline
14.220 Content


14.230 CHARNAME 13 (Romance 7)
14.230 Outline
14.230 Content


14.240 CHARNAME 14 (Romance 8)
14.240 Outline
14.240 Content


14.250 CHARNAME 15 (Romance 9)
14.250 Outline
14.250 Content


14.260 CHARNAME 16 (Romance 10)
14.260 Outline
14.260 Content


14.270 CHARNAME 17 (Romance 11)
14.270 Outline
14.270 Content


14.280 CHARNAME 18 (Romance 12)
14.280 Outline
14.280 Content


14.290 CHARNAME 19 (Romance 13) Commitment Talk
14.290 Outline

In this talk, Erevain will ask if CHARNAME loves him or will elicit it out of her. If successful love variable becomes 2.

14.290 Content


14.300 CHARNAME 20 (Romance 14)
14.300 Outline
14.300 Content


14.310 CHARNAME 21 (Romance 15)
14.310 Outline
14.310 Content


14.320 CHARNAME 22 (Romance 16)
14.320 Outline
14.320 Content


14.330 CHARNAME 23 (Romance 17)
14.330 Outline
14.330 Content


14.340 CHARNAME 24 (Romance 18) Final BG2 Talk
14.2340 Outline

This is the final lovetalk with CHARNAME and Erevain before defeating Irenicus moving over to TOB.

14.20 Content


14.200 CHARNAME 25 (Romance 19)
14.200 Outline
14.200 Content


14.200 CHARNAME 26 (Romance 20)
14.200 Outline
14.200 Content


14.200 CHARNAME 27 (Romance 21)
14.200 Outline
14.200 Content


14.200 CHARNAME 28 (Romance 22)
14.200 Outline
14.200 Content


14.200 CHARNAME 29 (Romance 23)
14.200 Outline
14.200 Content


14.200 CHARNAME 30 (Romance 24)
14.200 Outline
14.200 Content


14.200 CHARNAME 31 (Romance 25)
14.200 Outline
14.200 Content


14.200 CHARNAME 32 (Romance 26) Final Romance Talk
14.200 Outline

This is the final Romance talk between CHARNAME and Erevain.

14.200 Content

----------------
15. CHARNAME Player Initiated Banters
----------------

15.110 CHARNAME PIB 1
15.110 Outline
15.110 Content

// Speaker is Erevain, replies come from CHARNAME


IF ~!IsGabber(Player1)~ THEN BEGIN CHErevainPIB0 //Dialog should only run if Initiator is not Player 1
SAY ~I'm afraid I haven't much to say to you. Perhaps <CHARNAME> does?~ EXIT

IF ~IsGabber(Player1)~ THEN BEGIN CHErevainPIB1 //Dialog should only run if Initiator is Player 1
SAY ~Yes, what would you like to talk about?~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Tell me about Bladesingers?~ GOTO CHErevainPIB2
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I would like to know more about your background.~ GOTO CHErevainPIB2
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~How are you feeling?~ GOTO CHErevainPIB2
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Tell me about the Elven Deities.~ GOTO CHErevainPIB2
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Teach me something about magic~ GOTO CHErevainPIB2
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Teach me something about rogue skills~ GOTO CHErevainPIB2
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Teach me something about fighting~ GOTO CHErevainPIB2
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I want you to stop talking to me.~ GOTO CHErevainPIB2 //prevents CHARNAME-NPC Banters
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You can talk to me again.~ GOTO CHErevainPIB2 // re-enables CHARNAME-NPC Banters
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Your voice sounds strange.~ GOTO CHErevainPIB2 // Activate String Fixer
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Nevermind.~ EXIT

15.120 CHARNAME PIB 2
15.120 Outline
15.120 Content

CHErevainPIB2

Erevain: Tell me about Bladesingers. I've heard about them and their legendary feats of mixing blade and magic.

No no no no no! Why do you want to know about Bladesingers. Why does everyone want to know about Bladesingers!

a. Bladesingers are legendary. Aren't you a bladesinger? Goto1
b. Why don't you like Bladesingers? Shouldn't elves be proud of such legendary figures? Goto 3
c. You're right. Bladesingers are stupid! Fie to all ye dumb Bladesingers!

1 No, I am not! Just because I like to cast spells in enchanted elven armor, wield swords in one hand and nothing in the other does not make me a bladesinger!
a. That sounds a lot like a Bladesinger to me goto 2
b. Uhh...yeah. Erevain, you're definitely not a Bladesinger. No possible way. Goto 2
c. That's how Bladesingers fight? I thought they'd be wielding two greatswords, one in each hand, shooting fireballs and lightning bolts from each one while their enemies flew in desperate fear. Goto 2
D. I seem to have hit a sore spot. Let us just continue our travels ~Exit

2 (sigh) Corellon, soothe me with your music.

3 I do not dislike Bladesingers. Their reputation is highly exaggerated amongst the N-Tel-Quess. And it is very aggravating that everyone asks about them.

a. Who are the N-Tel-Quess? Go to 4
b. So, let me guess, you could never be a Bladesinger and you wanted to be? Goto 5
c. Very well. Let us continue our travels ~ Exit

4 The N-Tel-Quess are what we refer to in Elvish as non-Elves or non-people

a. That sounds like a racially antagonist term don't you think Erevain? GoTo 6
b. Very well. That makes sense. Let us move on. ~Exit
c. How does one become a non-N-Tel-Quess? Goto 7

5. Hrmmph! I never said or implied that! Oh Sehanine! Please cure me from this insanity! ~Exit

6. Grrr Grrr Grrrr......it is not anything of the sort. Either one is an elf or not! May Erevan Ilesere hide me from this madness! ~Exit

7. One cannot become a Tel-quessir if one is not already.
a. What's a Tel-quessir? GoTo 8
b. What about polymorph, reincarnation, shapechange, or any other such spells? GoTO 9
c. Sure one can; just get adopted! GoTo 9
d. Good point Erevain. Let us continue traveling.~Exit

8. (Sigh). Why Labelas Enoreth are we going on The Retreat! These other races are so ignorant of our people. A Tel-quessir is best translated as an elf or "of the people". I am beyond tired of this conversation. Let us move on ~Exit

9. (Sigh) That does not make one a Tel-quessir! The Elven soul and spirit are entirely different from other races. I tire of talking. Let us move on. ~Exit

----------------
16. Event BANTERS
----------------

16.110 Initial Meeting Modification
16.110 Outline
Below are additional lines to be added to Erevain's original dialog

16.110 Content


// You don't need a BEGIN unless you're starting or overwriting a new dialogue file.

EXTEND_BOTTOM DEREVAIN 0
++ ~Greetings. Have you heard any rumors in your travels?~ + DO ~SetGlobal("Erevain_Met","GLOBAL", 1)~ GOTO 9

EXTEND_BOTTOM DEREVAIN 1
++ ~Twenty years ago? You've been adventuring this whole time?~ + GOTO mod_ErevainA1

EXTEND_BOTTOM DEREVAIN 2
++ ~Explore the world? You must have been exploring Faerûn for a long time to get so far up North. ~ + GOTO mod_ErevainA1

EXTEND_BOTTOM DEREVAIN 3
++ ~Where is your homeland? Where do you hail from? ~ + GOTO mod_ErevainA3

EXTEND_BOTTOM DEREVAIN 6
++ ~Where is your homeland? Where do you hail from? ~ + GOTO mod_ErevainA3

EXTEND_BOTTOM DEREVAIN 9
++ ~I've seen a lot of fascinating and scary occurences myself traveling in strange parts since I left my home at Candlekeep.~ + GOTO 1
+ ~NumInPartyGT(1)~ + ~This is a strange land to us Erevain. You are much more familiar than us. Would you consider joining us to travel to Kuldahar or wherever adventure leads us?~ + GOTO mod_ErevainA2
+ ~NumInPartyLT(2)~ + ~This is a strange land to me Erevain. You are much more familiar than I. Would you consider joining me to travel to Kuldahar or wherever adventure leads us?~ + GOTO mod_ErevainA2
+ ~Global("Join_Posse", "GLOBAL", 3) NumInPartyGT(1)~ + ~We're planning to join Hrothgar on an expedition to Kuldahar. Your familiarity with that area would be a great boon to us. Would you consider joining us?~ + GOTO mod_ErevainA2
+ ~Global("Join_Posse", "GLOBAL", 3) NumInPartyLT(2)~ + ~I'm planning to join Hrothgar on an expedition to Kuldahar. Your familiarity with that area would be a great boon to us. Would you consider joining us?~ + GOTO mod_ErevainA2
IF ~~ THEN BEGIN 9 // from: 12.0 1

EXTEND_BOTTOM DEREVAIN 10
++ ~Hello again Erevain. Tell me, have you seen much in your travels?~ + GOTO 1
+ ~!Race(Player1, ELF)~ + ~What in the Nine Hells is an elf doing up here?~ + GOTO 2
+ ~Race(Player1, ELF)~ + ~Well met again brother. How goes your journey?~ + GOTO 1
++ ~How do you feel about this weather? It's quite chilly around here.~ GOTO 3
END

EXTEND_BOTTOM DEREVAIN 11
+ ~("Join_Accalia","GLOBAL",1)~ + ~Hrothgar is about to embark on an expedition to Kuldahar to investigate the evil forces plaguing that region. You should join with us. + mod_ErevainB1

EXTEND_BOTTOM DEREVAIN 12
++ ~Why won't you join them especially if you might go through that are anyway? We should all travel together there. + mod_ErevainA2

APPEND DEREVAIN

IF ~~ mod_ErevainA1
SAY ~Yes indeed. I've travelled all around Evereska, touched on Anauroch, through some of Comyr and the Dalelands, the Silver Marches, now finally the Spine of the World.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Hello. I'm <GABBER>. Tell me, Erevain, have you seen much in your travels?~ DO ~SetGlobal("Erevain_Met","GLOBAL", 1)~ GOTO 1
IF ~CheckStatLT(Player1, 9, CHR)~ THEN REPLY ~Yeah, yeah, yeah. Lots of places. I gotcha. So... hear any good rumors lately?~ GOTO 9
IF ~CheckStatGT(Player1, 8, CHR)~ THEN REPLY ~Being a traveler, you must hear a lot of interesting things. Have you heard anything interesting lately?~ GOTO 9
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Do you know of any other travelers in Easthaven?~ GOTO 12
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Well, that's a lot of interesting places traveled , but I must take my leave. Farewell.~ EXIT
IF ~NumInPartyGT(1)~ THEN REPLY ~We're travelers too: hailing from the Sword Coast. Would you consider traveling with us? You would be a great addtion.~ + GOTO mod_ErevainA2
IF ~NumInPartyLT(2)~ THEN REPLY ~I'm a traveler too: hailing from the Sword Coast. Would you consider traveling with me? You would be a great partner.~ + GOTO mod_ErevainA2
IF ~Global("Join_Posse", "GLOBAL", 3) NumInPartyGT(1)~ THEN REPLY ~We're planning to join Hrothgar on an expedition to Kuldahar. We could use an adventurer like yourself. Would you consider joining us?~ + GOTO mod_ErevainA2
IF ~Global("Join_Posse", "GLOBAL", 3) NumInPartyLT(2)~ THEN REPLY ~I'm planning to join Hrothgar on an expedition to Kuldahar. I could use an adventurer like yourself by my side. Would you consider joining me?~ + GOTO mod_ErevainA2


IF ~~ mod_ErevainA2
SAY ~I must respectfully decline. I have been used to adventuring alone for the last twenty years. I often avoid battles by sneaking past hostile creatures and cannot reliabily hide many other indviduals.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~ That's unfortunate. You would have made a great adventuring companion. Oh well. Farewell. ~ EXIT
IF ~CheckStatLT(Player1, 9, CHR)~ THEN REPLY ~Fine, be mean like that. But, you better at tell us what rumors you know.~ GOTO 9
IF ~CheckStatGT(Player1, 8, CHR)~ THEN REPLY ~I'm sorry to hear that. Can you at least tell us any rumors you know?~ GOTO 9
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~What do you mean avoid battles? Can't you fight?~ GOTO mod_ErevainA4
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~What do you mean sneaking past? Are you a Ranger or Thief?~ GOTO mod_ErevainA5
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~What do you mean hide other individuals? Are you a Mage?~ GOTO mod_ErevainA6
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~It sounds like you're just a coward who can't fight. I can't have cowards join my party.~ GOTO mod_ErevainA4
IF ~CheckStatLT(Player1, 9, CHR)CheckStatLT(Player1, 9, INT)~ THEN REPLY ~Bah. Stupid elves are scared. Scaredy elf!~ GOTO 4
IF ~NumInPartyGT(1)~ THEN REPLY ~If you've been adventuring for twenty years, you must be good at it. I'm sure you have many useful skills that could help us survive this harsh land. Please, join us~ GOTO mod_ErevainA7
IF ~NumInPartyLT(2)~ THEN REPLY ~If you've been adventuring for twenty years, you must be good at it. I'm sure you have many useful skills that could help us survive this harsh land. Please, join me~ GOTO mod_ErevainA8
EXIT

IF ~~ mod_ErevainA3
SAY ~Evereska is my homeland. A region and city adjacent to Comyr and located between the Sword Coast and great Anauroch desert. A great many elves participating in the Retreat are leaving there.~
IF ~!Race(Player1, ELF)~ THEN REPLY ~What is "the Retreat?"~ GOTO 6
IF ~CheckStatLT(Player1, 9, CHR)~ THEN REPLY ~Yeah, yeah, yeah. So... hear any good rumors lately?~ GOTO 9
IF ~CheckStatGT(Player1, 8, CHR)~ THEN REPLY ~Fascinating. Being a traveler, you must hear a lot of interesting things. Have you heard anything interesting lately?~ GOTO 9
IF ~CheckStatLT(Player1, 9, CHR) CheckStatLT(Player1, 9, INT)~ THEN REPLY ~So you came to Icewind Dale? Elf, you're stupid. This place is stupid too.~ GOTO 4
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~That's certainly a long way away. It was nice talking to you, but I have to go. Farewell.~ EXIT

IF ~~ mod_ErevainA4
SAY ~Oh, I am a fighter and am quite handy with the longsword as well as the longbow. I have simply learned the limits and dangers of fighting solo and seek to avoid unnecessary conflicts~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Sorry, I don't think you'd be a good fit here. Farewell.~ EXIT
IF ~NumInPartyGT(1)~ THEN REPLY ~It sounds like you can handle a weapon just fine if need be especially given your long tenure adventuring. Please, join us.~ GOTO mod_ErevainA7
IF ~NumInPartyGT(1)~ THEN REPLY ~It sounds like you can handle a weapon just fine if need be especially given your long tenure adventuring. Please, join me.~ GOTO mod_ErevainA8
IF ~CheckStatGT(Player1, 8, INT)~ THEN REPLY ~I think you're more likely to run up a tree than be of any real help to us. Good riddance.~ DO ~SetGlobal("Erevain_Jerk","GLOBAL", 1)~ EXIT
IF ~CheckStatLT(Player1, 9, INT)~ THEN REPLY ~If Scared elf not fight then scared elf get eaten. Dumb elf. ~ GOTO 4

IF ~~ mod_ErevainA5
SAY ~I prefer to call myself an Infiltrator. I excel in getting to places clandestinely as well as posessing the traditional Thief skills. If I must fight, my strike from the shadows is quite deadly.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Sorry, I don't think you'd be a good fit here. Farewell.~ EXIT
IF ~NumInPartyGT(1)~ THEN REPLY ~It sounds like you can handle a weapon just fine and offer assistance with your rogue skills. Please, join us.~ GOTO mod_ErevainA7
IF ~NumInPartyGT(1)~ THEN REPLY ~It sounds like you can handle a weapon just fine and offer assistance with your rogue skills. Please, join me.~ GOTO mod_ErevainA8
IF ~CheckStatGT(Player1, 8, INT)~ THEN REPLY ~I don't like rogues or any of their ilk. Good riddance.~ DO ~SetGlobal("Erevain_Jerk","GLOBAL", 1)~ EXIT
IF ~CheckStatLT(Player1, 9, INT)~ THEN REPLY ~Elf not stand and fight. Elf stupid and dumb. ~ GOTO 4


IF ~~ mod_ErevainA6
SAY ~Yes, I am a Mage. I have a variety of spells and special abilities that assist me in going invisible or avoiding detection.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Sorry, I don't think you'd be a good fit here. Farewell.~ EXIT
IF ~NumInPartyGT(1)~ THEN REPLY ~It sounds like your magic and abilities would be most useful. Please, join us.~ GOTO mod_ErevainA7
IF ~NumInPartyGT(1)~ THEN REPLY ~It sounds like your magic and abilities would be most useful. Please, join me.~ GOTO mod_ErevainA8
IF ~CheckStatGT(Player1, 8, INT)~ THEN REPLY ~The last thing I want is a helpless mage adding dead weight. Good riddance.~ DO ~SetGlobal("Erevain_Jerk","GLOBAL", 1)~ EXIT
IF ~CheckStatLT(Player1, 9, INT)~ THEN REPLY ~Elf's magic very weak and not good. Dumb elf.~ GOTO 4


IF ~~ mod_ErevainA7
SAY ~Very well. I shall consider traveling with your group another adventure in of itself. Come, let us explore onward!~ DO ~JoinParty()~ EXIT

IF ~~ mod_ErevainA8
SAY ~Very well. I shall consider traveling with you another adventure in of itself. Come, let us explore onward!~ DO ~JoinParty()~ EXIT

IF ~~ mod_ErevainB1
SAY ~I might consider joining Hrothgar's expedition for his sake, but you were really rude to me earlier. You need to apologize to me.~
IF ~CheckStatLT(Player1, 9, INT)~ THEN REPLY ~I'm not saying sorry to stupid elfs. Dumb elfs should apologize to me for being dumb.~ GOTO mod_ErevainB2
IF ~CheckStatGT(Player1, 8, INT)~ THEN REPLY ~As I recall. You were quite rude to me. You should apologize to me first.~ GOTO mod_ErevainB2
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~We seem to have gotten off on a bad foot. My apologies Erevain. I hope we can make amends and that you will join us on our expedition~ GOTO mod_ErevainB4

IF ~~ mod_ErevainB2
SAY ~I am now very sure that joining your expedition is a faulty notion. Best of luck; I shall not be joining you.~ DO ~SetGlobal("Erevain_Jerk","GLOBAL", 2)~ EXIT
IF ~~ EXIT

IF ~NumTimesTalkedToGT(0)
Global("Erevain_Jerk", "GLOBAL", 2)~ THEN BEGIN mod_ErevainB3 // from:
SAY ~I don't want to talk to you and I don't want to travel with you. Leave me be, please~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Fine... goodbye.~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ mod_ErevainB4
SAY ~Very well. Apology accepted. Still, the thought of heading further into this dreary weather even to help others is most distressing. The last thing I need in desolate weather is trouble between my own companions~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~If you're too weak to defend yourself from "trouble" with your companions. Then perhaps you should toughen up. Worrying is for weakinglings.~ GOTO mod_ErevainB2
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~We'll support each other every step of the journey. We have to if we're going to help these people.~ GOTO mod_ErevainB5
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~We have to work together if we're going to get that big reward. I want to be successful just as you do.~ GOTO mod_ErevainB5

IF ~~ mod_ErevainB5
SAY ~Alright. Let us journey together. Let us join Hrothgar and begin the expedition. DO ~JoinParty()~ EXIT





IF ~~ EXIT
END

END // closes the APPEND command

16.120 Kick out Dialogue
16.120 OUtline
16.120 Content

// You don't need a BEGIN unless you're starting or overwriting a new dialogue file.

BEGIN ~DEREVAINP~

IF ~Global("KickedOut","LOCALS",0) Global("ErevainDragonEye","GLOBAL",1)~ THEN BEGIN 0 //As soon as Erevain Visits Dragon's Eye, This variable changes to 1
SAY ~Are you sure about this? The end of our adventuring to come so soon?
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~No, our adventuring must continue together. Come and join us~ GOTO 1
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Yes, it must end for now. Safe journey and be well.~ GOTO 4
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN 1
SAY ~Excellent. Let us explore more lands together <CHARNAME>.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~JoinParty()~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN 2
SAY ~That's unfortunate. Best luck on your journey. I have more adventuring to do.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~EscapeArea()~ EXIT
END

IF ~Global("KickedOut","LOCALS",0) Global("ErevainDragonEye","GLOBAL",0)~ THEN BEGIN 3 //As soon as Erevain Visits Dragon's Eye, This variable changes to 1
SAY ~After all our journeys together are we to end this now?
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You're right Erevain. Let us continue again together.~ GOTO 4
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Yes, it must end for now. Safe journey and be well.~ GOTO 5
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN 4
SAY ~Excellent. Then we shall journey again with delay <CHARNAME>.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~JoinParty()~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN 5
SAY ~That's unfortunate. I must ponder my next actions~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Stay here for awhile Erevain in case we shall need of you later. ~EXIT
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Meet us back at the Copper Coronet. ~DO EscapeAreaMove("AR0406",1160,1380,0)~ // Modify this location to one not used by another NPC (this currently is Hrothgar's). Add a check to ensure we're in BG2
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Meet us back at the Kuldahar Tavern. ~DO EscapeAreaMove("AR0406",1160,1380,0)~ // Modify this for appropriate Area Location of Kuldahar Tavern and Global to ensure we're still in NeJ.
END

IF ~HappinessLT(Myself,-299)~ THEN BEGIN 6
SAY ~I have witnessed your evil deeds too long <CHARNAME>. May Corellon smite you where you stand. If we meet again, it shall be as enemies.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~SetGlobal("Erevain_Jerk","GLOBAL", 2) EscapeArea()~ EXIT

16.120 Erevain Ressurection Dialogue // This happens if Instead you take Erevain's dead body in Dragon's Eye and bring him back to life. Alternatively, there is a way to find Erevain's corpse in the present in the Graveyard district of Athkatla. This dialogue will pop up then too when bringing Erevain back to life

16.120 Outline
16.120 Content

IF ~Global("Erevain_Jerk", "GLOBAL", 2)~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection90
SAY ~Thank you for returning me to life. I entered Dragon's Eye and was attempting to save the captives there when I was ambushed and slain. I will continue journeying on my own as I have no desire to be near your ilk.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~EscapeArea()~ EXIT
END // If someone was a jerk before, then he won't want to join them again.


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection100
SAY ~Thank you for returning me to life. I entered Dragon's Eye and was attempting to save the captives there when I was ambushed and slain.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who attacked you?~ GOTO ErevainRessurection114
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who were you trying to rescue?~ GOTO ErevainRessurection112
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Are you handy with a sword? We could use some assistance.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection120
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Best of luck to you. We must continue investigating Dragon's Eye ourselves.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection115 // If Dragon's Eye Quest is not complete
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~We already defeated the forces in Dragon's Eye.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection115 // If Dragon's Eye Quest is not complete
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~What is Dragon's Eye?~ GOTO ErevainRessurection110
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection110
SAY ~Dragon's Eye is a cave complex near the Spine of the World. It contains evil creatures amassed for some dark purpose of which I am unaware. I must return to finish what I started. The captives are in grave danger.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who attacked you?~ GOTO ErevainRessurection114
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who were you trying to rescue?~ GOTO ErevainRessurection112
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~The Spine of the World is over ten tendays journey away. It is unlikely that we can rescue them in time.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection270 // If the party has never visited Dragon's Eye and is resurrecting Erevain in BG2 only.
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~When exactly did you enter Dragon's Eye? It may be too late.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection200 // If the party has never visited Dragon's Eye and is resurrecting Erevain in BG2 only.
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Good luck. I wish you success.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection190 // If the party has never visited Dragon's Eye and is resurrecting Erevain in BG2 only.
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Stupid idiot. You obviously want to die again.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection130
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~When we're done with our current business we can assist you. Why don't you join us until then? GOTO ErevainRessurection120 // BG2 Start only or Uncompleted Dragon's Eye
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Best of luck to you. We must continue investigating Dragon's Eye ourselves.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection115 // If Dragon's Eye Quest is not complete
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~We already defeated the forces in Dragon's Eye.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection115 // If Dragon's Eye Quest is not complete
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection112
SAY ~Villagers from Easthaven and other nearby towns were captured and brought to Dragon's Eye for some dark reason. I followed the trail of the captors and entered. I must rescue them before it is too late.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~What is Dragon's Eye?~ GOTO ErevainRessurection110
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who attacked you?~ GOTO ErevainRessurection114
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~The Spine of the World is over ten tendays journey away. It is unlikely that we can rescue them in time.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection270 // If the party has never visited Dragon's Eye and is resurrecting Erevain in BG2 only.
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~When exactly did you enter Dragon's Eye? It may be too late.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection200 // If the party has never visited Dragon's Eye and is resurrecting Erevain in BG2 only.
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Good luck. I wish you success.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection190 // If the party has never visited Dragon's Eye and is resurrecting Erevain in BG2 only.
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Stupid idiot. You obviously want to die again.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection130
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~When we're done with our current business we can assist you. Why don't you join us until then? GOTO ErevainRessurection120 // BG2 Start only or Uncompleted Dragon's Eye
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Best of luck to you. We must continue investigating Dragon's Eye ourselves.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection115 // If Dragon's Eye Quest is not complete
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~We already defeated the forces in Dragon's Eye.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection115 // If Dragon's Eye Quest is not complete
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection114
SAY ~I am uncertain. I was exploring the caves while hidden, but felt a sudden stab in my back. Somehow I was able to be detected. I blanked out at that point. I must complete what I started. I hope that the rescue will not come too late.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~What is Dragon's Eye?~ GOTO ErevainRessurection110
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who were you trying to rescue?~ GOTO ErevainRessurection112
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~The Spine of the World is over ten tendays journey away. It is unlikely that we can rescue them in time.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection270 // If the party has never visited Dragon's Eye and is resurrecting Erevain in BG2 only.
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~When exactly did you enter Dragon's Eye? It may be too late.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection200 // If the party has never visited Dragon's Eye and is resurrecting Erevain in BG2 only.
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Good luck. I wish you success.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection190 // If the party has never visited Dragon's Eye and is resurrecting Erevain in BG2 only.
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Stupid idiot. You obviously want to die again.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection130
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~When we're done with our current business we can assist you. Why don't you join us until then? GOTO ErevainRessurection120 //BG2 start only or Uncompleted Dragon's Eye
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Best of luck to you. We must continue investigating Dragon's Eye ourselves.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection115 // If Dragon's Eye Quest is not complete
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~We already defeated the forces in Dragon's Eye.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection115 // If Dragon's Eye Quest is not complete
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection115
SAY ~Allow me to join with you. We could accomplish much more together. I am handy with Sword, Bow, Spell, and Skill.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I would gladly have you.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection260
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I cannot take you with me now, but perhaps at another time.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection117
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I will not take you with me.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection116
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection116
SAY ~Brought to life in a strange land with little help. Now, I depart.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~EscapeArea()~
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection117
SAY ~I suppose I must wait for awhile then. I will find a nearby tavern and hope that you change your mind~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~EscapeAreaMove("AR2111",1178,1386,0)~ //Fix XY Coordinates later. This is the Root Cellar Tavern in Kuldahar.
END



IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection120
SAY ~I would gladly welcome your assistance, but these captives cannot wait much longer. We must rescue them first and poste-haste.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~The Spine of the World is over ten tendays journey away. It is unlikely that we can rescue them in time.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection270 // If the party has never visited Dragon's Eye and is resurrecting Erevain in BG2 only.
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~When exactly did you enter Dragon's Eye? It may be too late.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection200 // If the party has never visited Dragon's Eye and is resurrecting Erevain in BG2 only.
IF ~NumInPartyGT(1)~ THEN REPLY ~I don't care about those captives and given how you were generously returned to life, you owe us.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection150
IF ~NumInPartyLT(2)~ THEN REPLY ~I don't care about those captives and given how you were generously returned to life, you owe me.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection150
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~We have other priorities at the moment. When we're finished with our business, we can assist you.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection140
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Stupid idiot. You obviously want to die again.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection130
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~We shall rescue them together.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection260 // If Dragon's Eye is not completed yet and not BG2 only start.
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You have already died once and should not join us just yet. Wait for us to complete the rescue first..~ GOTO ErevainRessurection117 // If Dragon's Eye is not completed yet and not BG2 only start
IF ~NumInPartyLT(2)~ THEN REPLY ~Nevermind. You should not come with me.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection116 // If Dragon's Eye is not completed yet and not BG2 only start
IF ~NumInPartyGT(1)~ THEN REPLY ~Nevermind. You should not come with me.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection116 // If Dragon's Eye is not completed yet and not BG2 only start
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection130
SAY ~How offensive. Good riddance.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~EscapeArea() ~
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection140
SAY ~I apologize, but I cannot knowingly allow any more tragedies while there is strength in my being. Never again. Thank you and best of luck.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~EscapeArea() ~
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection150
SAY ~You are a dishonorable <MANWOMAN> to so callously ignore those in need. Debt to you or not, I will leave to rescue these people.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm sorry. You are right. We should save these captives together.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection260 // If Dragon's Eye is not completed
IF ~NuminPartyLT(2)~ THEN REPLY ~I'm sorry. You are right. These captives should be rescued but I cannot take you right now.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection117 // If Dragon's Eye is not completed
IF ~NuminPartyGT(1)~ THEN REPLY ~I'm sorry. You are right. These captives should be rescued, but you cannot help us as you have already died once.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection116 // If Dragon's Eye is not completed
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~The Spine of the World is over ten tendays journey away. It is unlikely that you can rescue them in time.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection270 // If the party has never visited Dragon's Eye and is resurrecting Erevain in BG2 only.
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~When exactly did you enter Dragon's Eye? It may be too late.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection200 // If the party has never visited Dragon's Eye and is resurrecting Erevain in BG2 only.
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Stupid idiot. You obviously want to die again.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection130
IF ~NumInPartyLT(2)~ THEN REPLY ~You will not go there or rescue the captives. You will come with me, or you will die.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection180
IF ~NumInPartyGT(1)~ THEN REPLY ~You will not go there or rescue the captives. You will come with us, or you will die.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection180
IF ~NumInPartyLT(2)~ THEN REPLY ~You owe me a debt and I will not allow you to tarry without repaying it.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection170
IF ~NumInPartyGT(1)~ THEN REPLY ~You owe us a debt and we will not allow you to tarry without repaying it.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection170
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO ErevainRessurection160
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection160
SAY ~I'm sorry, but I must depart.
IF ~~ THEN DO ~EscapeArea() ~
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection170
SAY ~And, how will you stop me? Kill me?~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm sorry. You are right. We should save these captives together.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection260 // If Dragon's Eye is not completed
IF ~NuminPartyLT(2)~ THEN REPLY ~I'm sorry. You are right. These captives should be rescued but I cannot take you right now.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection117 // If Dragon's Eye is not completed
IF ~NuminPartyGT(1)~ THEN REPLY ~I'm sorry. You are right. These captives should be rescued, but you cannot help us as you have already died once.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection116 // If Dragon's Eye is not completed
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~No, I'm sorry. Leave if you must.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection190
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm sorry, but how are you to succeed? How far away is Dragon's Eye from here?~ GOTO ErevainRessurection270 // BG2 start only
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm sorry, but how are you to succeed? How long has it been since you attempted rescue?~ GOTOErevainRessurection200 // BG2 start only
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I won't stop you, but you're making a grave mistake.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection190
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You're welcome to die there again idiot.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection130
IF ~NumInPartyLT(2)~ THEN REPLY ~I will if forced. You will join me until your debt is repaid or you will die. The captives are of no consequence.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection180
IF ~NumInPartyGT(1)~ THEN REPLY ~We will if forced. You will join us until your debt is repaid or you will die. The captives are of no consequence.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection180
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO ErevainRessurection160
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection180
SAY ~Corellon, guide my blade against these evil ones!~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~Enemy()~
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection190
SAY ~Mistake or not I cannot knowingly allow any more tragedies while there is strength in my being. Never again.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~EscapeArea() ~
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection200
SAY ~What do you mean? What year is it now?~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~It is 1369.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection230
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't know, but those transporting your corpse stated that you had been dead for decades at least.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection230
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Your body was a pile of bones Erevain. It's been years if not decades since you first died.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection230
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You've been dead for years elfling. How stupid are you?~ GOTO ErevainRessurection220
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I don't know.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection210
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'm not telling you.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection210
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO ErevainRessurection160
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection210
SAY ~Then you are of no help to my cause. I will leave now.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~EscapeArea()~
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection220
SAY ~Such rudeness is not necessary.~
IF ~~ THEN DO GOTO ErevainRessurection230
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection230
SAY ~It seems that I have been gone a long time. There is little point to rushing to the cold North now.~
IF ~~ THEN DO GOTO ErevainRessurection235
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection231
SAY ~Regardless of where we are now, we are far from the Spine of the World.~
IF ~~ THEN DO GOTO ErevainRessurection232
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection232
SAY ~It would take too long to travel there by foot in time and would be too late anyway. We can try to find a quicker means of travel if it should come up.~
IF ~~ THEN DO GOTO ErevainRessurection235
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection235
SAY ~I may as well join you if you will have me.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I would gladly have your company~ GOTO ErevainRessurection260
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I would never take a pathetic one like you with me.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection240
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Perhaps later, but not right now.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection250
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~No, I will not take you.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection240
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO ErevainRessurection160
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection240
SAY ~Brought to life in a strange land and in a strange time to fend for myself. Very well. Now, I depart.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~EscapeArea()~
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection250
SAY ~Very well. I shall wait in a nearby Inn in this city for awhile. I suppose that I have the time.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~EscapeAreaMove("AR0406",1178,1386,0)~
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection260
SAY ~Corellon be praised. Let us journey together.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~JoinParty()~
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection270
SAY ~Where exactly am I?~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~You are in Athkatla in the nation of Amn.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection280
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Far from the Spine of the World.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection280
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Far south from the North. ~ GOTO ErevainRessurection280
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I am not entirely sure.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection231
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~(Lie) Extremely close to the Spine of the World.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection290
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO ErevainRessurection160
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection280
SAY ~Well, travel to Dragon's Eye is certainly is a far way away then. Do you have a method to travel there quickly?~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~(lie) Yes.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection290
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~No.~ GOTO ErevainRessurection232
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO ErevainRessurection160
END


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN ErevainRessurection290
SAY ~I cannot travel with liars such as yourself. That would result in perpetual disappointment. Goodbye.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~EscapeArea()~
END


16.200 Travel to Kuldahar
16.200 Outline
16.200 Content

Erevain: Oh Sehanine! Why did I agree to travel this way! If I didn't despise the cold enough to have these frost giants kill most us! (Sigh) If we barely made it then surely future travelers would surely perish, I suppose we must defend the innocent and find the source of these attacks.

16.300 Arrival at Dragon's Eye
16.300 Outline
16.300 Content

Erevain: This stone fabric truly resembles a Dragon. What a grand sight! However, such ostentatious displays are likely used to mask how weak the defenses are on the inside. Carry on <CHARNAME>. but I do think that I could handle this locale on my own just fine.


16.400 Choosing to Go Home instead of Travelling to the Severed Hand
16.400 Outline
16.400 Content

//The below happens after <CHARNAME> Says : So once again we are destined to take the unknown road. Let us ready ourselves for what lies ahead.

Erevain: Wherever you go <CHARNAME>, I shall go as well. It has been awhile since adventuring has caught my heart racing so! It shall be quite enlightening to see the world of your time period.

//If Imoen is present
Imoen: Oh yes, we'll have so much to share with you. Great foods such as mud pies, butterfly wheels, and pixie stuffing!

//If Imoen is present
Erevain: That sounds most gruesome actually.

//If Imoen is present
Imoen: Oh, don't take everything so literal Erevain. There's so many fun things to experience! You'll love it somewhere warmer

//If Imoen is present
Erevain: Rightly so! Getting away from this Icy Anvil will be most welcome!

16.500 Arrival at Severed Hand
16.500 Outline
16.500 Content

// After arriving, Erevain speaks up like the other NPCs

Erevain: What strange magic got us here Hrothgar?


16.700 Reaction to Yoshimo Betrayal
16.700 Outline
16.700 Content

Erevain: I thought you an ally Yoshimo. Yet this entire time you deceived all of us. You are worthy of the ranks of the treacherous drow. Amin feuya ten' lle Tanar'ri!

16.1000 Tree of Life
16.1000 Outline
16.1000 Content


16.2000 Final TOB Speech
16.2000 Outline
16.2000 Content


16.2110 Epilogue 1: Single Erevain
16.2110 Outline
16.2110 Content


16.2120 Epilogue 2: Erevain Romance Elf
16.2120 Outline
16.2120 Content


16.2130 Epilogue 3: Erevain Romance Non-Elf
16.2130 Outline
16.2130 Content

After twenty years of travels away from home, Erevain finally returned to his home in Evereska. Erevain warmly embraced friends and family not seen in decades. Here he proudly introduced his famous wife, <CHARNAME>. The Blacksheaf clan was impressed with <CHARNAME>'s deeds and heroism, but behind closed doors expressed that they couldn't help but be disappointed by Erevain's choice of a N-Tel-Quess spouse, further diluting the family bloodline and contributing to the increasing scarcity of elves across Faerûn.

Unbeknownst to <CHARNAME>, Erevain challenged his own clan and vigorously defended his spousal selection. Erevain's pleads were disregarded and his clan's opinion remained firm. Rejected a second time, Erevain left Evereska with <CHARNAME> and continued to adventure for a time before settling for a simpler life in Calimshan. News of <CHARNAME>'s pregnancy wavered Erevain's resolve and the birth of their child broke it completely.

Unable to bear the living humiliation of disappointing his family again, Erevain abandoned <CHARNAME> and their infant daughter. Without a word, Erevain left to wander the outskirts of Faerûn, the foreign lands of Zakhara and Kara-Tur, and later the outer planes themselves. Forever ashamed of his actions towards his family and to <CHARNAME>, Erevain drifted for centuries. Eventually, Erevain disappeared entirely and the name "Erevain Blacksheaf" was lost from memory.


----------------
17. Interjections
----------------


17.100 During conversation with Denaini in the Temple of the Hand after CHARNAME asks for a reward from the undead elven spirit
17.100 Outline
17.100 Content

Erevain: We are not going to coerce this dead spirit <CHARNAME>! They have nothing to give us. We are going to help them though!

17.200 After speaking to Denaini in the Temple of the Hand after receiving the quest
17.200 Outline
17.200 Content

Erevain: It angers my soul to see such a monument to the Tel-Quessir desecrated like this. One day my people's numbers will increase again and we will abandon the Retreat. We will reclaim and restore these abandoned locales and make them ours again. This is Hanali Celanil, goddess of love and beauty. That is Labelas Enoreth, god of time and longevity. The rest are more difficult for me to decipher. Damn the beasts responsible for this.


17.300 After completing Denaini's Quest
17.300 Outline
17.300 Content

Erevain: We have truly done a great deed here <CHARNAME>. Now, the souls of these elves may yet rest and join with the Seldarine. You have my respect. Never again must a thing like this be permitted to happen.

This post has been edited by Bill Bisco: Oct 10 2015, 04:13 AM
Go to the top of the page
	
 
Quote Post
Bill Bisco
	
post Jun 2 2015, 10:19 PM
Post #3





Forum Member
Posts: 108
Joined: 20-January 06




	
----------------
18. CRE File Information
----------------

SAY NAME1 ~Erevain~
SAY NAME2 ~Erevain~
SAY MORALE ~I must hide! Now!~
SAY HAPPY ~I have grown quite fond of this company.~
SAY UNHAPPY_ANNOYED ~I don't like the path that we're taking.~
SAY UNHAPPY_SERIOUS ~We muat make a serious change soon!~
SAY UNHAPPY_BREAKING ~I am long past done with you. Good riddance!~
SAY LEADER ~My multiple talents make me the natural singlular leader.~
SAY TIRED ~I need to meditate.~
SAY BORED ~Elves can be patient, but not this patient!~
SAY BATTLE_CRY1 ~With true strikes!~
SAY BATTLE_CRY2 ~With Elven speed!~
SAY BATTLE_CRY3 ~By Corellon's sword, you shall fall!~
SAY BATTLE_CRY4 ~Taste my Elven steel!~
SAY BATTLE_CRY5 ~Fie to ye foul foes!~
SAY DAMAGE ~Agh.~
SAY DYING ~I need healing quickly.~
SAY HURT ~That'll leave a scar.~
SAY AREA_FOREST ~Ahh. How I relish such beautiful forests.~
SAY AREA_CITY ~Another city. Perhaps some of my kind dwell here.~
SAY AREA_DUNGEON ~Work together friends, danger is likely nearby.~
SAY AREA_DAY ~Fair weather is most welcome.~
SAY AREA_NIGHT ~Be weary friends, most unsultry creatures lurk at this hour.~
SAY SELECT_COMMON1 ~How can I serve?~
SAY SELECT_COMMON2 ~Yes?~
SAY SELECT_COMMON3 ~Which talent do you require?~
SAY SELECT_COMMON4 ~Anytime; anywhere.~
SAY SELECT_COMMON5 ~Need a spell?~
SAY SELECT_COMMON6 ~Corellon would show ye true glory, if you let him.~
SAY SELECT_ACTION1 ~By Corellon's grace.~
SAY SELECT_ACTION2 ~ With Elven speed.~
SAY SELECT_ACTION3 ~Absolutely.~
SAY SELECT_ACTION4 ~So it is.~
SAY SELECT_ACTION5 ~ May Erevan Ilesere keep us disguised.~
SAY SELECT_ACTION6 ~For beauty.~
SAY SELECT_ACTION7 ~With humble pleasure.~
SAY SELECT_RARE1 ~It is an honor to serve the cause of light.~
SAY SELECT_RARE2 ~Dance to the rhythm of life! ~
SAY CRITICAL_HIT ~That's it!!~
SAY CRITICAL_MISS ~Argh!~
SAY TARGET_IMMUNE ~Another weapon! Now!~
SAY INVENTORY_FULL ~I need a large bag of holding. The item is on the ground.~
SAY SPELL_DISRUPTED ~My spell is faulty!~
SAY SET_A_TRAP ~A token of my genius.~
SAY HIDDEN_IN_SHADOWS ~One with the shadows.~
SAY PICKED_POCKET ~I only take what I must.~

SAY BIO ~When asked about his past, EREVAIN reveals that he left his home of Evereska twenty years ago to explore Faerûn. Most recently, he began his journey to reach the Spine of the world and the region of Icewind Dale. From an early age he expressed aptitude in multiple areas and was encouraged by his mentor Yalatheniel to maintain the discipline to grow competent in all three three of his interests. You get a sense that while he misses his home, he's reluctant to speak much about it. He seems to have some unfinished business there...~

--------------------------------------
19. Infiltrator Kit Description
--------------------------------------

INFILTRATOR: The Infiltrator is the master of stealth and mastering unknown places: urban or wilderness. These rogues use their magical abilities to supplement their thieving skills at the price of reduced progress in those thieving skills.

Advantages:

- Access to several innate abilities, which grow in frequency and availability as levels advance:

1. Luck ( 2 uses at level 2)

2. Non-Detection (2 uses at level 3)

3. Knock (2 uses at level 4, 1 additional use at levels 7,10,16,22,28,34,40)

4. Invisibility (2 uses at level 5)

5. Find Traps (2 uses at level 6, 1 additional use at levels 12,18,24,30,36,42)

6. Dimension Door (at level 11,17,23,29,35,41)

7. Improved Invisibility (at level 8)

8. Farsight (at level 9,15,21,27,33,39)

9. True Sight (at level 13, 19, 25, 31, 37,43)

10. Mass Invisibility (at level 14,20,26,32,38,41)

Disadvantages:

- Gets only 15 points to distribute thieving points per level.

--------------------------------------
20. Erevain's Elven Plate +2 Description
--------------------------------------

Llamien Blacksheaf forged this armor for Erevain Blacksheaf's adulthood ceremony. Highly ornate, flexible, protective and decorated with embellishments of the Blacksheaf family crest, this armor strikes a high bar for Elven armorsmithing. Fitted especially for Erevain, this armor is nearly impossible for others to don.


STATISTICS:

Armor Class: 1
Weight: 25
Requires: 10 Strength
Usable By:
Erevain

Penalties:
Pick Pockets -35%
Open Locks -15%
Find/Remove Traps -40%
Move Silently -25%


//Should have a penalty to Hide in Shadows -25% but no armor in BG2 grants this penalty
//Enchantment 2
//Price 2500
//Armor should have icons and look like Aslyferund Elven Chain +5, but with Black instead of Gold Trim.
//Other than changes above, other ITM characteristics the same as Aslyferund Elven Chain +5

--------------------------------------
21. Erevain's Broadsword +3 Description
--------------------------------------

This sword, an oddity amonst elves who normally prefer lighter blades, The original Greycloak owner passed this owneron after years of service.Kethryllia Amaranthine reforged this sword 1221 DR for Erevain Blacksheaf's initiation to the Evereskan Greycloaks. It has since been redecorated and openly displays the Black sheaf family crest. Erevain requested this sword be heavier and more damaging

This broad sword used to belong to Erevain Blacksheaf, a wandering elf from Evereska. It was made in 1221 DR by Evereskan Greycloaks. Erevains sword is unusual among elves, who normally favor lighter swords.

STATISTICS:

Damage: 2D4 +3
THAC0: +3
Damage Type: Slashing
Resistance Bonus:
+2 Save vs. Wands
+10% Acid Resistance
Weight: 4
Speed Factor: 5
Proficiency Type: Long Sword
Type: 1-handed
Not Usable By:
Druid
Cleric

// +3 Sword instead of +2
// Changed Item Description as item can now be gained with Erevain no longer deceased.
// Old description is "This broad sword used to belong to Erevain Blacksheaf, a wandering elf from Evereska.
// It was made in 1221 DR by Evereskan Greycloaks. Erevains sword was unusual among his people, who normally
// favor lighter swords."
// All other characteristics not changed should be the same as the original.

--------------------------------------
22. Blacksheaf Family Amulet Description
--------------------------------------

Jeadra Black crafted this amulet as a wedding gift to her husband-to-be Elion Sheaf to formalize their new family union and legacy together. Since then, it has passed down from generation to generation to the next living member of the Blacksheaf famliy line.

This amulet bestows an enhanced sense of adventure into the bearer, increasing their rate of gaining experience. Unfortunately, it also clandestinely bears the Blacksheaf family curse as many descendants have not returned home alive.

STATISTICS:

Benefits:
+20% to Experience Gained

Penalties:
-3 penalty to all saves vs. Death and Breath

Usable By:
Erevain
Xan

// Copy and modify Agni Mani Necklace as above. Alternatively, copy and modify Amulet of the Seldarine and color the icon Black.

--------------------------------------
23. Erevain's Body
--------------------------------------
This is the body of Erevain Blacksheaf, an elven adventurer from Evereska who died trying to rescue the prisoners of Dragon's Eye.

// This item will appear along with Erevain's Items if he is not recruited in Easthaven, or is removed from the party before Erevain reaches Dragonseye.
--------------------------------------
24. Encounter 1: Guthic of Shargaas
--------------------------------------

// This encounter will occur right after completion of Dragon's Eye Dungeon. shortly after walking into town, the party will view a band of mercenaries and will be force-talked from a distance. Their Leader Guthic of Shargaas was hired by Yalatheniel (although he will not reveal this yet) to kill Erevain and anyone associated with him.
// Guthic will only appear if Erevain is in the party, or if the party is carrying Erevain's body.
// Guthic of Shargaas, worships Shargaas, the orc deity of darkness, night, stealth, thieves, and the undead. Guthic is a Cleric/Assassin who wields a club. He frequently uses the poison ability combined with backstab for tremendous damage. Club should deal additional bleeding damage. CHARNAME can either hand over Erevain, pay Guthic Off in Money, Pay Guthic off in Items, or Fight him.

// Guthic's Crew:

// Guthic: Half-Orc Cleric 9 /Assassin 9. Begins Battle by activating Ring of Invisibility. Moves over to enemy and backstabs. After Backstabbing, immediately activate Ring of Invisibility and turn invisible again. If Guthic is significantly injured he may cast Sanctuary followed by several healing spells on himself before going invisible again and returning to the battle fray.
// Guthic Items: Darkplate +2 (protects against death effects), Club +4 Life Drinker

Club +4: Life Drinker

This dark enchanted club was created from the horrific compact dismemberment of an undead wight. Those struck by its unholy shaft risk losing their life essence.

STATISTICS:

Combat Abilities:
Enemy must save vs. Death or suffer 1 level drain with each successful attack


Damage: 1D6+4
Damage type: crushing
Weight: 3
Speed Factor: 4
Proficiency Type:Club
Type: 1-handed
Requires: 5 Strength
Not Usable By:
Mage
Good Characters

Icon: BLUN22.ITM but colored Black
// Haliz: Goblin Jester 9. All he does is walk around with his Bardic Music playing while invisible. His song causes confusion in enemies. If his invisibility is broken, he casts invisibility until he is successfully invisible. He then moves into range of an enemy and resumes his bard song. If he is unable to cast invisibility, he will use a ranged weapon or a melee weapon (if engaged).
// Gauthig: Hobgoblin Fighter 9 with all pips in Long Bow. Uses +2 Poison Arrows. Brother of Gauthug
// Gauthug: Hobgoblin Fighter 9 with all pips in Long Bow. Uses +2 Poison Arrows. Brother of Gauthig
// Lodieg. Half-Hobgoblin Mage 10 (Use Human Wizard sprites with Hobgoblin skin tone) Auto Stoneskin at Fight Start. First spell Cast Haste on Allies. Afterwards, Tactics are to Cast Stinking Cloud and Animate Dead against the PC party. Beyond this, casts Flame Arrow, Acid Arrow, Magic Missile and other direct damage spells that won't risk harming
// Urgan, Orog Barbarian 9, Activate Barb Rage and Engage with Two Handed Sword
// Varbu. Orog Barbarian 9 Activate Barb Rage and Engage with Two Handed Sword
// Gudhog Orog Barbarian 9 Activate Barb Rage and Engage with Two Handed Sword
// Sulbgha Orog Barbarian 9 Activate Barb Rage and Engage with Two Handed Sword


//Guthic is speaking to CHARNAME below
IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D100
SAY ~Finally you have arrived. By Krognan's bony blade, it took a long time to track you down.~
IF ~~ THEN DO GOTO BIGuthic1D105
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D105
SAY ~Hand Erevain over, or suffer the same fate as these pathetic townsfolk. We shall collect our bounty one way or another.~
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Why do you have such an interest in Erevain?~ GOTO BIGuthic1D290
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~What is this bounty you speak of?~ GOTO BIGuthic1D280
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who placed the bounty?~ GOTO BIGuthic1D270
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Why have you attacked this town?~ GOTO BIGuthic1D260
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who is Krognan?~ GOTO BIGuthic1D250
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~I'll make no deals with murderers.~ GOTO BIGuthic1D160
IF ~NumInPartyGT(1)~ THEN REPLY ~You are no match for us. Touch one hair of his and you join your maker.~ GOTO BIGuthic1D160
IF ~NumInPartyLT(2)~ THEN REPLY ~You are no match for me. Touch one hair of his and you join your maker.~ GOTO BIGuthic1D160
IF ~NumInPartyGT(1)~ THEN REPLY ~We have no wish to fight. Leave us be.~ GOTO BIGuthic1D240
IF ~NumInPartyLT(2)~ THEN REPLY ~I have no wish to fight. Leave me be.~ GOTO BIGuthic1D240
IF ~NumInPartyGT(1)~ THEN REPLY ~Please don't hurt us. I beg you.~ GOTO BIGuthic1D230
IF ~NumInPartyLT(2)~ THEN REPLY ~Please don't hurt me. I beg you~ GOTO BIGuthic1D230
IF ~CheckStatGT(Player1, 8, CHR) ~ THEN REPLY ~Surely, there is a way for us to come to some other arrangement.~ GOTO BIGuthic1D150
IF ~PartyHasItem("EREVBOD1") !InParty("Erevain Blacksheaf") ~ THEN REPLY ~You may take his body.~ GOTO BIGuthic1D140
IF ~!PartyHasItem("EREVBOD1") InParty("Erevain Blacksheaf") ~ THEN REPLY ~You may take him..~ GOTO BIGuthic1D120
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO BIGuthic1D110
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D110
SAY ~No words? Eliminate these fools!~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~Enemy()~ EXIT
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D120
SAY ~Excellent. You are not as stupid as you look.~
== VARBU ~Hehe. Elves don't need ears do they?~
== GUDHOG ~Those pointy things will make a good necklace!~
== SULBGHA ~I just want to bash his ugly face.~
== EREVAIN ~How could you do this <CHARNAME>! You can't just hand me off to this scum!~
== GUTHIC ~Haha. You will come with us. Alive or Dead.
== EREVAIN ~I'll never come with you. Corellon, aid me!~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~ReputationInc(-2) LeaveParty() ~ EXIT
// Erevain is supposed to leave the party
// Add code to the above to make it so that Erevain and Guthic's crew fight each other.


// If Erevain somehow defeats Guthic's crew on his own and survives. Erevain speaks and says.
IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D130
SAY ~I'm disgusted with you CHARNAME. We shall not meet again.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~EscapeArea() ~
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D140
SAY ~Excellent. A wise decision. Shargaas, the Night Lord, shall spare your lives for now.~
IF ~PartyHasItem("EREVBOD1")~ THEN DO ~TakePartyItem("EREVBOD1") EscapeArea() ~
END
// Make sure all of Guthic's crew leave the area.

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D150
SAY ~An interesting proposal.
IF ~~ THEN DO GOTO BIGuthic1D155
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D155
SAY ~If you pay the bounty plus a finder's fee, then Shargaas the Night Lord shall allow you to keep Erevain. 15,000 gold pieces. No less~
IF ~ PartyGoldGT(14999)~ THEN REPLY ~Very Well. Take the gold and leave Erevain alone.~ GOTO BIGuthic1D220
IF ~ PartyGoldLT(15000)~ THEN REPLY ~(Lie). Very Well. Take the gold and leave Erevain alone.~ GOTO BIGuthic1D210
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~15,000 is too much. We cannot pay that.~ GOTO BIGuthic1D200
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~What is this bounty you speak of?~ GOTO BIGuthic1D180
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who placed the bounty?~ GOTO BIGuthic1D190
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Who is Shargaas?~ GOTO BIGuthic1D170
IF ~PartyHasItem("EREVBOD1")~ THEN REPLY ~Never mind, You may have Erevain's body.~ GOTO BIGuthic1D140
IF ~InParty("Erevain Blacksheaf")~ THEN REPLY ~Never mind, You may have Erevain.~ GOTO BIGuthic1D120
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~Never mind, I'll make no deals with your kind. You shall not have Erevain.~ GOTO BIGuthic1D160
IF ~~ THEN REPLY ~...~ GOTO BIGuthic1D110
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D160
SAY ~Fool! Die for the glory of the Night Lord. The corpses of my slain enemies serve me in undeath.~
== HALIZ ~Hee hee! It shall be a fun skewering!~
== LODIEG ~Wander life asleep and die asleep.~
== GAUTHIG ~No chance to sleep. Our venom will do that.~
== GAUTHUG ~It shall indeed my brother.~
== URGAN ~Too much talk. Kill!~
== EREVAIN ~Let's eliminate them quickly <CHARNAME>! // Line is only stated if Erevain is alive, not corpse object
IF ~~ THEN DO ~Enemy()~
END
// Ensure all of Guthic's Crew become enemies of the party

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D170
SAY ~I shall educate you cretin. Shargaas is the Night Lord. The mighty orc deity of Stealth, Thieves, Darkness, Night, and the Undead. From his sightless caverns he plots and all shall know of his will. So again. Let us finish our discussion.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO BIGuthic1D155
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D180
SAY ~We have been paid to retrieve Erevain, dead or alive for the bounty placed upon him. In Shargaas's name we shall complete this task. Let us finish our discussion.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO BIGuthic1D155
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D190
SAY ~The holder of the bounty for Erevain is confidential and shall not be revealed by us. Let us finish our discussion.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO BIGuthic1D155
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D200
SAY ~Then I shall say it again.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO BIGuthic1D10.
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D210
SAY ~You think you can deceive a follower of the god of thievery?~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO BIGuthic1D160
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D220
SAY ~Excellent. A wise decision. Shargaas, the Night Lord, shall spare your lives for now.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~ TakePartyGold(15000) EscapeArea() ~
END
// Make sure all of Guthic's crew leave the area.


IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D230
SAY ~Then meet our demands.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO BIGuthic1D105
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D240
SAY ~If you desired peace, then you would give us our target.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO BIGuthic1D160
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D250
SAY ~I shall educate you imbecile. Krognan is a craftsman in the service of Shargaas the Night Lord. His bone weapons and armors are famous. I shall say it again. ~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO BIGuthic1D105
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D260
SAY ~To collect our bounty. We shall do many things. I shall say it again. ~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO BIGuthic1D105
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D270
SAY ~We have been paid to retrieve Erevain, dead or alive, for the bounty placed upon him. In Shargaas's name we shall complete this task. I shall say it again.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO BIGuthic1D105
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D280
SAY ~The holder of the bounty for Erevain is confidential and shall not be revealed by us. I shall say it again.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO BIGuthic1D105
END

IF ~~ THEN BEGIN BIGuthic1D290
SAY ~We have no interest in Erevain ourselves. We care only for the bounty. I shall say it again.~
IF ~~ THEN DO ~~ GOTO BIGuthic1D105
END


/// NPC Interjections. If the PC chooses BIGuthic1D140, give Alive Erevain to Guthic

Minsc: Boo and Minsc do not like this! Why should this stinking evil haf-orc have our friend!

Jaheira: Erevain and I may have our differences, but I would not wish this upon him.

Imoen: I don't like this <CHARNAME>. Would you abandon me like that too?

Shar-Teel: Hah! It's about time <CHARNAME>! That pathetic elf deserves nothing better. I'm just sad it won't be by me

Dar: No one deserves this <CHARNAME>. You saved me from the wolves, and yet you send Erevain to these wolves?

Hrothgar: I don't approve of this <CHARNAME>. We should try to find a way other than abandoning our comrade!

Accalia: Tempus wills us to fight not sell our comrades! This is awful <CHARNAME>!

/// NPC Interjections If the PC chooses BIGuthic1D120, give Dead Erevain body away

Minsc: Boo does not like this action. We should kick evils' butts not hand them our own!

Jaheira: I have no faith that Erevain's corpse will be anything but defiled by those who want it.

Imoen: I wouldn't want any filthy grubby half-orc touching my body, alive or dead. I don't like this <CHARNAME>.

Shar-Teel: I don't know who would want a pathetic elf body, but let them carry it.

Accalia: Tempurans would die before letting their enemies claim the bodies of their comrades. This is not acceptable <CHARNAME>

/// NPC Interjections If the PC chooses BIGuthic1D160, Fight Guthic

Accalia: Tempus! Give us victory!

Imoen: You're not taking him you stinky puntlicker!

Shar-Teel: Why are we sticking our necks out for this pathetic one? Ughh.



--------------------------------------
25. Encounter 2: Yalatheniel of Evereska
--------------------------------------

--------------------------------------
26. Encounter 3: Guthic of Shargaas #2
--------------------------------------

// Guthic returns to fight

--------------------------------------
27. Encounter 4: Yalatheniel of Evereska #2
-------------------------------------- 
